Back to previous page 
document 1 of 236 
Republicans Care About the Climate: [Op-Ed] 
Hochschild, Arlie; Hochschild, David.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]30 Dec 2018: SR.7. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Republicans+Care+About+the+Climate%3A+%5BOp­Ed%5D&title=New+York+Times&issn=03624331&date=2018-12­30&volume=&issue=&spage=SR.7&au=Hochschild%2C+Arlie%3BHochschild%2C+David&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 

None available. 

Full Text 
Democrats and Republicans have clashed fiercely on many issues -- the Mueller investigation, immigration, gun control -- but can the two parties come together on climate change, the biggest issue of all? 
Most analysts say no. After all, since President Trump took office, the terms "global warming" and "climate change" have been expunged from some government websites. Mr. Trump says his "very high level of intelligence" has led him to reject the findings of 13 federal agencies, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and the World Meteorological Organization. 
But how many of his fellow Republicans agree? If we compare the extremes in each party -- liberal Democrats and conservative Republicans -- as the media often does, the split is clear. But if we compare all Republicans with all Democrats, we see a new and encouraging overlap. 
In March, well before the most destructive wildfires in California history, the Yale Program on Climate Change Communication and the George Mason University Center for Climate Change Communication polled 1,067 registered voters on climate change. The study found that while they disagree on the cause, majorities in both parties agree that the world is experiencing global warming and call for government action to address it. 
The poll asked whether the United States should "set strict carbon dioxide emission limits on existing coal-fired power plants to reduce global warming and improve public heath," even if "the cost of electricity to consumers and companies would likely increase." Eighty-seven percent of Democrats and 56 percent of Republicans said yes. 
Should the United States require fossil fuel companies to pay a carbon tax and use the money to reduce other taxes (such as income tax) by an equal amount? Eighty-four percent of Democrats and 56 percent of Republicans said yes. 
Asked, "When there's a conflict between environmental protection and economic growth, which do you think is more important?" 85 percent of Democrats and 52 percent of Republicans said that environmental protection should come first. 
The survey also found that majorities in both parties think the government should fund research into solar and wind energy, offer tax rebates to those buying energy-efficient vehicles and solar panels, and encourage schools to teach children about the causes and consequences of global warming, and potential solutions. A majority of Democrats and Republicans believe the United States should participate in the Paris climate accord and reduce greenhouse gas emissions regardless of what other countries do. 
A study conducted in June by Stanford, ABC News and Resources for the Future uncovered a similar trend. It found that 66 percent of Republicans believe the increase in temperature is "mostly or partly caused by humans." Another poll, released last month by Monmouth University in New Jersey, found that most Republicans now support action on climate change. 
To be sure, not every poll shows the same thing. An NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll recently asked people if they believed climate change is "serious" and requires "immediate action." Only around 15 percent of Republicans said yes compared with 71 percent of Democrats. It's notable that the poll did not ask, as the Yale study did, for views on specific remedies -- which is where the two parties seem to find more common ground. 
On a trip to rural Louisiana in 2016, we visited Mike Schaff, a Trump and Tea Party supporter who recently retired from a career in the oil industry. He had lost his beloved home to an enormous sinkhole caused by a reckless drilling company and become an active board member of Louisiana's GreenArmy, a small but remarkable environmental group. But about climate change, Mr. Schaff shook his head. "I'll worry about global warming in 50 years," he said. 
Out fishing on the bayou in the late-afternoon mist, he told us: "We're running out of oil anyway, so I'd love to rely on clean energy. Wouldn't have to drill. And as soon as it's as cheap as fossil fuel, and feasible, I think we should switch. It would make us independent." He continued, "It's time for a modern-day Manhattan Project to effect a major change in the way humans use and produce energy." 
Climate change activists would do well to embrace Americans like Mike Schaff, even if they don't agree on everything. 
Many conservative Republicans feel that frightening news of climate change usually comes from alarmist liberals who belittle their religious faith, elitists who condescend to them and a federal government that, until Mr. Trump, had forgotten them. Curiously, Americans who live near extreme flooding and fires are no more likely to worry about 
climate change than those far from the threat of such disasters. But that doesn't mean they can't change their minds. 
Studies by a University of Colorado psychologist, Leaf Van Boven, and two colleagues points to a "party over policy" effect, in which people's views on a carbon tax depend less on the content of the proposal than on the party they believe proposed it. This is true for both Democrats and Republicans. So maybe Republicans just need to hear from messengers they trust. 
A talk by an evangelical climate scientist, one study shows, altered the views of climate skeptics studying at evangelical colleges. Similarly, we need to find ways of showing science-doubting Republican oil workers that the leaders of Exxon Mobil, Chevron, ConocoPhillips and BP have acknowledged the risk of climate change and that steps must be taken to address it. Republicans who greatly admire the military could learn about the ways the Pentagon has already acknowledged the risk of climate change as a security issue and has quietly set about installing renewable energy projects on bases across the country. 
Democrats should celebrate Republicans who are out front on climate change. The Republican mayor of San Diego, Kevin Faulconer, recently announced, as a "nonpartisan issue," his city's commitment to achieve 100 percent renewable energy by 2035 -- a goal that is 10 years sooner than the one that California's Democratic governor, Jerry Brown, set for the state. Twenty-nine states have renewable energy mandates in place; 13 were signed into law by Republican governors. 
Two Republican former secretaries of state, George Shultz and James Baker, have called for a gradually increasing carbon tax, with all revenue rebated directly to the American people. A family of four would get about $2,000 a year in "carbon dividends." The idea is similar to one backed by the nonpartisan Citizens' Climate Lobby, which has more than 100,000 members and chapters throughout the country. It helped form the bipartisan House Climate Solutions Caucus and has supported the bipartisan Energy Innovation and Carbon Dividend Act now before Congress. 
So while Americans have been focusing on the split between Democrats and Republicans, the more important gap may now be between Republican voters and the leaders they elected. 
Unpredictable weather is not new, of course, but recent events are making climate change harder than ever to ignore, let alone deny. Over the past two years, wildfires have burned nearly three million acres in California, while hurricanes have battered the Southeast with increasing intensity. 
The smoking ruins of Paradise, Calif., and Houston's flooded homes, are as shocking and devastating, in their own ways, as the tragedy of Sept. 11. Climate change is a different kind of emergency. It does not occur on a single day, and no one person gave the order. But in the long run its impact will be greater. It's time for us to join hands across party lines to address it. 
Arlie Hochschild is a professor emerita of sociology at the University of California, Berkeley, and the author of "Strangers in Their Own Land: Anger and Mourning on the American Right." Her son, David Hochschild, is a member of the California Energy Commission, the state's energy policy and planning agency. 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram . 
Illustration 
DRAWING (DRAWING BY ROSE WONG) 
Copyright New York Times Company Dec 30, 2018 

Subject  Floods; Environmental tax; Energy; Firearm laws & regulations; Greenhouse effect; Climate change; Fossil fuels; Carbon; Global warming; Coal-fired power plants; Environmental protection  
Location  Louisiana; New Jersey; New York; United States--US; California  
People  Trump, Donald J; Faulconer, Kevin  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  California Energy Commission 926130;  
Name: NAICS:  ConocoPhillips Co 211111;  
Name: NAICS:  Department of Defense 928110;  
Name: NAICS:  Monmouth University 611310;  
Name: NAICS:  Facebook Inc 518210, 519130;  

Name:  Wall Street Journal  
NAICS:  511110;  
Name:  ABC Inc  

NAICS:  515120;  
Name:  New York Times Co  
NAICS:  511110, 511120, 515112, 515120;  
Name:  George Mason University  
NAICS:  611310;  
Name:  Exxon Mobil Corp  
NAICS:  211111, 447110;  
Name:  Congress  
NAICS:  921120;  
Name:  Twitter Inc  
NAICS:  519130;  
Name:  University of Colorado  
NAICS:  611310;  
Name:  Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change  
NAICS:  541712, 928120;  
Name:  NBC News Channel  
NAICS:  515120;  
Name:  World Meteorological Organization  
NAICS:  924120  


URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/29/opinion/sunday/republicans-climate-change-polls.html  
Title  Republicans Care About the Climate: [Op-Ed]  
Author  Hochschild, Arlie; Hochschild, David  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  SR.7  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Dec 30, 2018  
Section  SR  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  2161341322  

Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2161341322?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Dec 30, 2018  
Last updated  2019-05-29  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 2 of 236 



Trump Imperils the Planet: [Editorial] 
New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]28 Dec 2018: A.22. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Trump+Imperils+the+Planet%3A+%5BEditorial%5D&title=New+York+Times& 12-28&volume=&issue=&spage=A.22&au=&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
It's hard to believe but it was only three years ago this month -- just after 7 p.m., Paris time, Dec. 12, to be precise -- that delegates from more than 190 nations, clapping and cheering, whooping and weeping, rose to celebrate the Paris Agreement -- the first genuinely collective response to the mounting threat of global warming. It was a largely aspirational document, without strong legal teeth and achieved only after contentious and exhausting negotiations. But for the first time in climate talks stretching back to 1992, it set forth specific, numerical pledges from each country to reduce emissions so that together they could keep atmospheric temperatures from barreling past a point of no return. 
Two weeks ago, delegates met at a follow-up conference in Katowice, Poland, to address procedural questions left unsettled in Paris, including common accounting mechanisms and greater transparency in how countries report their emissions. In this the delegates largely succeeded, giving rise to the hope, as Brad Plumer put it in The Times, that "new rules would help build a virtuous cycle of trust and cooperation among countries, at a time when global politics seems increasingly fractured." 
But otherwise it was a hugely dispiriting event and a fitting coda to one of the most discouraging years in recent memory for anyone who cares about the health of the planet -­a year marked by President Trump's destructive, retrograde policies, by backsliding among big nations, by fresh data showing that carbon dioxide emissions are still going up, by ever more ominous signs (devastating wildfires and floods, frightening scientific reports) of what a future of unchecked greenhouse gas emissions is likely to bring. 
The conference itself showcased the very fossil fuels that scientists and most sentient people agree the world must rapidly wean itself from. Poland's president, Andrzej Duda, set the tone by declaring he had no intention of abandoning coal, which provides nearly four-fifths of Poland's electricity. The United States and three other major oil producers ­
- Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Russia -- refused to endorse an alarming report issued in October by the United Nations scientific panel on climate change calling for swift reductions in fossil fuel use by 2030 to avoid the worst consequences of climate change, which it said were approaching much faster than anyone had thought. 
Wells Griffith, Mr. Trump's international energy and climate adviser, managed in one quote to summarize the dismissiveness of the American delegation and its fealty to the president's apparently unshakable conviction that anything that helps the environment must inevitably hurt the economy. "The United States has an abundance of natural resources and is not going to keep them in the ground," he said. "We strongly believe that no country should have to sacrifice their economic prosperity or energy security in pursuit of environmental sustainability." The administration is full of zero-sum philosophers like Mr. Griffith. The idea that sustainability may be a necessary condition of future economic growth appears never to have crossed their minds. 
Further depressing the proceedings were recent defections and political troubles in countries that, along with the United States, had been expected to lead the way to a low-carbon energy future. Germany, which long ago walked away from carbon-free nuclear power, is having a hard time cutting back on coal because of political opposition. In Australia, a prime minister was kicked out of office because he wanted to reduce the use of coal, which Australia produces in abundance. China, despite admirably aggressive investments in wind and solar power, has yet to get a firm grip on its emissions from coal-fired plants. The new president-elect of Brazil, Jair Bolsonaro, not only named an outspoken climate-change denier as his foreign minister but also, reversing his predecessors' policy, pledged to open up the Amazon to mining and farming. This will threaten biodiversity in one of the world's great rain forests while crippling its ability to act as a sink for carbon emissions. 
No country's backsliding, of course, compares with Mr. Trump's. Determined to demolish President Barack Obama's entire climate strategy, Mr. Trump has in the past year replaced Mr. Obama's clean-power plan, which was aimed at reducing carbon dioxide emissions from power plants, with an essentially useless substitute that would emit 12 times the pollution envisaged by the Obama plan. He has proposed weakening a major Obama regulation requiring automakers to nearly double the fuel economy of passenger vehicles by 2025. (This rollback, The Times reported this month, came after a lot of whining by oil interests, not, as one might suspect, from the auto companies, which had accepted the challenge.) And the Environmental Protection Agency and the Interior Department have taken multiple steps to roll back Obama-era efforts to control emissions of methane, a greenhouse gas many times more powerful than carbon dioxide. These three programs formed the basis of Mr. Obama's pledge at the 2015 Paris meeting to reduce America's greenhouse gas emissions by 26 percent to 28 percent below 2005 levels by 2025. 
The health and environmental effects of the Trump rollbacks, as documented by a Times investigation published this week, are far-reaching and potentially devastating. 
This holiday season has brought more gifts to fossil fuel interests; every day is Christmas Day for the likes of Murray Energy and Exxon Mobil. This month, the E.P.A. proposed killing an Obama rule that would effectively block the construction of new coal-fired power plants. The Interior Department relaxed restrictions on oil and gas drilling in areas inhabited by the sage grouse, a threatened bird. Also in December, the department released an environmental-impact statement that would open all or part of the 1.5 million-acre coastal plain of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to leasing and exploration. The area had been off limits to drilling for decades until Congress, late last year, approved an amendment sponsored by Senator Lisa Murkowski, an Alaska Republican, to open it up. 
All this is fundamentally Mr. Trump's doing. A series of early executive orders established the pro-fossil fuel policy framework; Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. administrator, and Ryan Zinke, the interior secretary, filled in the details. Mr. Pruitt has left Washington and Mr. Zinke is in his final days, both finishing under ethical clouds. They will deserve, along with Mr. Trump, history's censure for doing virtually nothing to move to a more responsible energy future -- and for not doing so at just the moment when the world needed the kind of leadership that Mr. Obama and his secretary of state, John Kerry (and Bill Clinton and Al Gore before them), tried to provide. 
The numbers are not great. The goal in Paris was to keep warming from exceeding 2 degrees Celsius over preindustrial levels, and if possible to hold the line at 1.5 degrees, thresholds that scientists deemed unacceptably risky. Delegates knew that even if every country managed to fulfill its individual pledges, the world would be on pace for 3 degrees of warming in this century. So they agreed to tighten the targets as time went on, but instead they've slid backward. Many large emitters are not on track to meet their self-imposed goals. That includes America, despite the retirement of many coal-fired plants in favor of cleaner natural gas, the increasing cost competitiveness of renewable fuels like wind and solar power, and the valiant efforts of states like California to sharply reduce their own emissions and lead where Mr. Trump will not. 
The bottom line, according to the Global Carbon Project, is that after three years in which emissions remained largely flat, global levels of carbon dioxide increased by 1.6 percent in 2017 and are on pace to jump by 2.7 percent this year. Some scientists have likened the increase in emissions to a "speeding freight train." That has a lot to do with economic growth. It also has a lot to do with not moving much faster to less carbon-intensive ways of powering that growth. Or in Mr. Trump's case, moving in the opposite direction. 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram . 
Credit: THE EDITORIAL BOARD 

Illustration 
DRAWING (DRAWING BY ENZO PÉRÈS-LABOURDETTE) Copyright New York Times Company Dec 28, 2018 
Subject 	Emissions; Presidents; Greenhouse effect; Industrial plant emissions; Climate change; Nuclear power plants; Natural gas; Solar energy; Greenhouse gases; Fossil fuels; Economic growth; Carbon dioxide; Coal-fired power plants 
Location 	Russia; Arctic region; Alaska; Kuwait; Australia; Poland; Brazil; United States--US; New York; Saudi Arabia; Germany; China; California 
People 	Trump, Donald J; Duda, Andrzej; Kerry, John F; Zinke, Ryan; Pruitt, Scott; Obama, Barack; Murkowski, Lisa; Gore, Albert Jr; Clinton, Bill; Bolsonaro, Jair 
Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA NAICS: 924110; 
Name: Facebook Inc 

NAICS: 518210, 519130; 


Name: New York Times Co 

NAICS: 511110, 511120, 515112, 515120; 


Name: United Nations--UN 

NAICS: 928120; 

Name: Exxon Mobil Corp 

NAICS: 211111, 447110; 


Name: Twitter Inc 

NAICS: 519130; 

Name: Congress 

NAICS: 921120; 

Name: Arctic National Wildlife Refuge 

NAICS: 712190, 924120 


URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/26/opinion/editorials/climate-change-environment-trump.html  
Title  Trump Imperils the Planet: [Editorial]  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  

First page  A.22  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Dec 28, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  2161019987  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2161019987?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Dec 28, 2018  
Last updated  2018-12-28  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 3 of 236 


78 Environmental Rules on the Way Out Under Trump (And 11 Rules Reinstated After Challenges): [SpecialSections] 
Popovich, Nadja; Pierre-Louis, Kendra; Albeck-Ripka, Livia.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]27 Dec 2018: F.12. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=78+Environmental+Rules+on+the+Way+Out+Under+Trump+%28And+11+Rule 12-27&volume=&issue=&spage=F.12&au=Popovich%2C+Nadja%3BPierre-Louis%2C+Kendra%3BAlbeck­Ripka%2C+Livia&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Air pollution and emissions COMPLETED 
1.
 Canceled a requirement for oil and gas companies to report methane emissions. E.P.A. 

2.
 Revised and partially repealed an Obama-era rule limiting methane emissions on public lands, including intentional venting and flaring from drilling operations. Interior Department 

3.
 Loosened a Clinton-era rule designed to limit toxic emissions from major industrial polluters. E.P.A. 

4.
 Stopped enforcing a 2015 rule that prohibited the use of hydrofluorocarbons, powerful greenhouse gases, in air-conditioners and refrigerators. E.P.A. 

5.
 Repealed a requirement that state and regional authorities track tailpipe emissions from vehicles traveling on federal highways. Transportation Department 

6.
 Amended rules that govern how refineries monitor pollution in surrounding communities. E.P.A. 

7.
 Directed agencies to stop using an Obama-era calculation of the "social cost of carbon" that rulemakers used to estimate the long-term economic benefits of reducing carbon dioxide emissions. Executive Order 

8.
 Withdrew guidance that federal agencies include greenhouse gas emissions in environmental reviews. (But several district courts have ruled that emissions must be included in such reviews.) Executive Order; Council on Environmental Quality 

9.
 Reverted to a weaker 2009 pollution permitting program for new power plants and expansions. E.P.A. IN PROCESS 

10.
 Proposed weakening Obama-era fuel-economy standards for cars and light trucks. The proposal also challenges California's right to set its own more stringent standards, which can be followed by other states. E.P.A. and Transportation Department 

11.
 Announced intent to withdraw the United States from the Paris climate agreement (but the process of withdrawing cannot be completed until 2020). Executive Order 

12.
 Proposed repeal of the Clean Power Plan, which would have set strict limits on carbon emissions from coal- and gas-fired power plants. In August 2018, the E.P.A. drafted a replacement plan, called the Affordable Clean Energy rule, that would let states set their own rules. Executive Order; E.P.A. 

13.
 Proposed eliminating Obama-era restrictions that in effect required newly built coal power plants to capture carbon dioxide emissions. E.P.A. 

14.
 Prepared a legal justification for weakening an Obama-era rule that limited mercury emissions from coal power plants. E.P.A. 

15.
 Proposed revisions to standards for carbon dioxide emissions from new, modified and reconstructed power plants. Executive Order; E.P.A. 

16.
 Began review of emissions rules for power plant start-ups, shutdowns and malfunctions. In September, E.P.A. officials said they were considering repealing the rule. E.P.A. 

17.
 Proposed relaxing Obama-era requirements that companies monitor and repair methane leaks at oil and gas facilities. E.P.A. 

18.
 Proposed changing rules aimed at cutting methane emissions from landfills. E.P.A. 

19.
 Announced rewrite of an Obama-era rule meant to reduce air pollution in national parks and wilderness areas. E.P.A. 

20.
 Weakened oversight of some state plans for reducing air pollution in national parks. (In Texas, the E.P.A. rejected an Obama-era plan that would have required the installation of enhanced air pollution equipment at some coal-burning power plants to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions.) E.P.A. 

21.
 Proposed repealing leak-repair, maintenance and reporting requirements for large refrigeration and air-conditioning systems containing hydrofluorocarbons. E.P.A. Drilling and extraction COMPLETED 

22.
 Lifted a freeze on new coal leases on public lands. Executive Order; Interior Department 

23.
 Repealed an Obama-era rule governing royalties for oil, gas and coal leases on federal lands, which replaced a 1980s rule that critics said allowed companies to underpay the federal government. Interior Department 

24.
 Made significant cuts to the borders of two national monuments in Utah and recommended border and resource management changes to several more. Presidential Proclamation; Interior Department 

25.
 Revoked an Obama-era executive order designed to preserve ocean, coastal and Great Lakes waters in favor of a policy focused on energy production and economic growth. Executive Order 

26.
 Rescinded water pollution regulations for fracking on federal and Indian lands. Interior Department 

27.
 Scrapped a proposed rule that required mines to prove they could pay to clean up future pollution. E.P.A. 

28.
 Withdrew a requirement that Gulf oil rig owners prove they could cover the costs of removing rigs once they have stopped producing. Interior Department 

29.
 Approved construction of the Dakota Access pipeline less than a mile from the Standing Rock Sioux reservation. Under the Obama administration, the Army Corps of Engineers had said it would explore alternative routes. Executive Order; Army 

30.
 Changed how the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission considers the indirect effects of greenhouse gas emissions in environmental reviews of pipelines. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 

31.
 Permitted the use of seismic air guns for gas and oil exploration in the Atlantic Ocean. The practice, which can kill marine life and disrupt fisheries, was blocked under the Obama administration. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 

IN PROCESS 

32.
 Proposed opening most of America's coastal waters to offshore oil and gas drilling. Interior Department 

33.
 Expedited an environmental review process to clear the way for drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. Congress; Interior Department 

34.
 Ordered review of regulations on oil and gas drilling in national parks where mineral rights are privately owned. Executive Order 

35.
 Proposed changes to regulations for oil well control and blowout prevention systems implemented after the 2010 Deepwater Horizon explosion and oil spill. Interior Department 

36.
 Recommended shrinking three marine protected areas, or opening them to commercial fishing. Executive Order; National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 

37.
 Proposed revisions to regulations on offshore oil and gas exploration by floating vessels in the Arctic that were developed after a 2013 accident. Executive Order; Interior Department 

Infrastructure and planning COMPLETED 

38.
 Revoked Obama-era flood standards for federal infrastructure projects, like roads and bridges. The standards required the government to account for sea-level rise and other climate change effects. Executive Order 

39.
 Relaxed the environmental review process for federal infrastructure projects. Executive Order 

40.
 Revoked a directive for federal agencies to minimize impacts on water, wildlife, land and other natural resources when approving development projects. Executive Order 

41.
 Revoked a 2016 order promoting "climate resilience" in the northern Bering Sea region in Alaska. Executive Order 

42.
 Revoked an Obama-era order that had set a goal of cutting the federal government's greenhouse gas emissions by 40 percent over 10 years. Executive Order 

43.
 Reversed an update to the Bureau of Land Management's public land use planning process. Congress 

44.
 Withdrew an Obama-era order to consider climate change in managing natural resources in national parks. National Park Service 

45.
 Restricted most Interior Department environmental studies to one year in length and a maximum of 150 pages, citing the need to reduce paperwork. Interior Department 

46.
 Withdrew a number of Obama-era Interior Department climate change and conservation policies that the agency said could "burden the development or utilization of domestically produced energy resources." Interior Department 

47.
 Eliminated the use of an Obama-era planning system designed to minimize harm from oil and gas activity on sensitive landscapes, such as national parks. Interior Department 

48.
 Eased the environmental review processes for small wireless infrastructure projects with the goal of expanding 5G wireless networks. Federal Communications Commission 

IN PROCESS 

49.
 Announced plans to speed up and streamline the environmental review process for forest restoration projects. Agriculture Department Animals COMPLETED 

50.
 Overturned a ban on the use of lead ammunition and fishing tackle on federal lands. Interior Department 

51.
 Overturned a ban on the hunting of predators in Alaskan wildlife refuges. Congress 

52.
 Ended an Obama-era rule barring hunters on some Alaska public lands from using bait to lure and kill grizzly bears. National Park Service; Interior Department 

53.
 Withdrew proposed limits on endangered marine mammals and sea turtles unintentionally caught by fishing nets on the West Coast. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 

54.
 Amended fishing regulations for a number of species to allow for longer seasons and higher catch rates. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 

55.
 Rolled back an Obama-era policy aimed at protecting migratory birds. Interior Department 

56.
 Overturned a ban on using parts of migratory birds in handicrafts made by Alaskan Natives. Interior Department 

IN PROCESS 

57.
 Proposed stripping the Endangered Species Act of key provisions. Interior Department 

58.
 Released a plan to open nine million acres of Western land to oil and gas drilling by weakening habitat protections for the sage grouse, an imperiled bird with an elaborate mating dance. Interior Department 


Toxic substances and safety 
COMPLETED 
59.
 Narrowed the scope of a 2016 law mandating safety assessments for potentially toxic chemicals, like dry-cleaning solvents and paint strippers. The E.P.A. will focus on direct exposure and exclude air, water and ground contamination. E.P.A. 

60.
 Reversed an Obama-era rule that required braking system upgrades for "high hazard" trains hauling flammable liquids, like oil and ethanol. Transportation Department 

61.
 Removed copper filter cake, an electronics manufacturing byproduct composed of heavy metals, from the "hazardous waste" list. E.P.A. IN PROCESS 

62.
 Rejected a proposed ban on chlorpyrifos, a potentially neurotoxic pesticide. In August 2018, a federal court ordered the E.P.A. to ban the pesticide, but the agency appealed the ruling. E.P.A. 

63.
 Proposed eliminating a program designed to limit exposure to lead, which is known to damage brain and nervous system development. E.P.A. 

64.
 Announced a review of an Obama-era rule lowering coal dust limits in mines. The head of the Mine Safety and Health Administration said there were no immediate plans to change the dust limit, but the review is continuing. Labor Department 

Water pollution COMPLETED 

65.
 Revoked a rule that prevented coal companies from dumping mining debris into local streams. Congress 

66.
 Withdrew a proposed rule reducing pollutants, including air pollution, at sewage treatment plants. E.P.A. 

67.
 Revoked federal rules regulating coal ash waste from power plants and granted oversight to the states. E.P.A. 

68.
 Withdrew a proposed rule requiring groundwater protections for certain uranium mines. E.P.A. IN PROCESS 

69.
 Proposed rolling back protections for certain tributaries and wetlands that the Obama administration wanted covered by the Clean Water Act. E.P.A.; Army 

70.
 Delayed by two years an E.P.A. rule regulating limits on toxic discharge, which can include mercury, from power plants into public waterways. E.P.A. Other COMPLETED 

71.
 Prohibited funding environmental and community development projects through corporate settlements of federal lawsuits. Justice Department 

72.
 Announced intent to stop payments to the Green Climate Fund, a United Nations program to help poorer countries reduce carbon emissions. Executive Order 

73.
 Reversed restrictions on the sale of plastic water bottles in national parks designed to cut down on litter, despite a Park Service report that the effort worked. Interior Department 

IN PROCESS 

74.
 Proposed limiting the studies used by the E.P.A. for rulemaking to only those that make data publicly available. (The move was widely criticized by scientists, who said it would effectively block the agency from considering landmark research that relies on confidential health data.) E.P.A. 

75.
 Proposed changes to the way cost-benefit analyses are conducted under the Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act and other environmental statutes. E.P.A. 

76.
 Delayed compliance dates for federal building efficiency standards until Sept. 30, 2017. No updates have been published, and the status of the rule remains unclear. Energy Department 

77.
 Proposed withdrawing efficiency standards for residential furnaces and commercial water heaters designed to reduce energy use. Energy Department 

78.
 Withdrew a proposed rule that would inform car owners about fuel-efficient replacement tires. The Transportation Department is scheduled to republish a proposal in June 2019. Transportation Department 


11 rules were reinstated following lawsuits and other challenges 
1.
 Reinstated a rule aimed at improving safety at facilities that use hazardous chemicals following a federal court order. E.P.A. 

2.
 Approved the Keystone XL pipeline rejected by President Barack Obama, but a federal judge blocked the project from going forward, saying the Trump administration did not present a "reasoned explanation" for the approval. Executive Order; State Department 

3.
 Reversed course on repealing emissions standards for "glider" trucks -- vehicles retrofitted with older, often dirtier engines -- after Andrew Wheeler took over as head of the 


E.P.A. E.P.A. 
4.
 Delayed a compliance deadline for new national ozone pollution standards by one year, but later reversed course. E.P.A. 

5.
 Suspended an effort to lift restrictions on mining in Bristol Bay, Alaska. E.P.A. 

6.
 Announced intent to regulate paint removers containing methylene chloride after pressure from families who had lost relatives to poisoning. The E.P.A. had indicated it would not finalize regulatory action on the substance. (But so far it has not moved to ban its commercial use.) E.P.A. 

7.
 Delayed implementation of a rule regulating the certification and training of pesticide applicators, but a judge ruled that the E.P.A. had done so illegally and declared the rule in effect. E.P.A. 

8.
 Initially delayed publishing efficiency standards for household appliances, but later published them after multiple states and environmental groups sued. Energy Department 

9.
 Reissued a rule limiting the discharge of mercury by dental offices into municipal sewers after a lawsuit by the Natural Resources Defense Council, an advocacy group. E.P.A. 

10.
 Re-posted a proposed rule limiting greenhouse gas emissions from aircraft, after initially changing its status to "inactive" on the E.P.A. website. E.P.A. 

11.
 Removed the Yellowstone grizzly bear from the Endangered Species List, but the protections were later reinstated by a federal judge. Interior Department 


This list does not include new rules proposed by the Trump administration that do not roll back previous policies, nor does it include court actions that have affected 
environmental policies independent of executive or legislative action. 
Sources: Harvard Law School's Environmental Regulation Rollback Tracker; Columbia Law School's Climate Deregulation Tracker; Brookings Institution; Federal Register; 

Environmental Protection Agency; U.S. Chamber of Commerce; White House. 
Credit: NADJA POPOVICH, KENDRA PIERRE-LOUIS and LIVIA ALBECK-RIPKA; Additional reporting by Tatiana Schlossberg. 

Graph 
ICS; CHART (Sources: Harvard Law School's Environmental Regulation Rollback Tracker; Columbia Law School's Climate Deregulation Tracker; Brookings Institution; Federal Register; Environmental Protection Agency; U.S. Chamber of Commerce; White House. Additional reporting by Tatiana Schlossberg.) Copyright New York Times Company Dec 27, 2018 
Subject 	Government agencies; Emissions; Natural resources; Environmental regulations; Roads & highways; Transportation planning; Air pollution; Energy; Wilderness areas; Tires; Environmental policy; Industrial plant emissions; Climate change; Litigation; Wildlife conservation; Power plants; Greenhouse gases; Carbon dioxide; Environmental protection; Infrastructure; Emission standards; 
National parks; 
Coal; 
Regulatory reform 


Location  United States--US  
People  Trump, Donald J  
Company / organization  Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS: 924110;  
Name: Federal Energy Regulatory Commission--FERC  
NAICS: 926110, 926130;  
Name: National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration--NOAA  
NAICS: 924120;  
Name: US Chamber of Commerce  
NAICS: 813910  
Title  78 Environmental Rules on the Way Out Under Trump (And 11 Rules Reinstated After  
Challenges): [SpecialSections]  
Author  Popovich, Nadja; Pierre-Louis, Kendra; Albeck-Ripka, Livia  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
First page  F.12  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Dec 27, 2018  
Section  F  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2160679144  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2160679144?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Dec 27, 2018  
Last updated  2019-01-04  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 4 of 236 



Easing a 'War on Coal': [SpecialSections] 
Lipton, Eric.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]27 Dec 2018: F.6. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Easing+a+%27War+on+Coal%27%3A+%5BSpecialSections%5D&title=New+Yo 12-27&volume=&issue=&spage=F.6&au=Lipton%2C+Eric&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
THOMPSONS, Tex. -- It is a once-common sight that is now less frequent: A mile-long freight train rolls up to a power plant in Texas -- in this case, the W. A. Parish complex near Houston -- and then slows to a crawl as its cars, each carrying 100 tons of coal, are tipped one at a time like child's toys to deliver their load. 
Long reliant on coal as a major source of fuel for its electricity-generating plants, Texas is increasingly shifting to natural gas, wind and solar energy, prodded by the improving economics of these alternative sources and by tighter environmental regulation. 
The change has brought a degree of progress in cleaning up the air. Two Texas coal-burning plants, targets of an Obama administration policy intended to curb harmful sulfur dioxide emissions, have closed this year. A third, which has supplied power to San Antonio since the 1970s, will be mothballed at the end of this month. 
These Texas plants, and a fourth that closed this year, together produced 108,000 tons of sulfur dioxide in 2017, or 39 percent of the total state power plant emissions of the pollutant. That is an extraordinary decline in one year, and more than half of the 194,000-ton reduction called for in the Obama plan from late 2016. 
But now, after years of policies that President Trump and others have derisively described as a "war on coal," the Trump administration has called a timeout on a costly mandate that would have ensured continued improvement in the region's air quality. 
The administration's target has been an Obama-era rule that would have forced a group of coal-burning plants to install expensive scrubbers to cut sulfur dioxide discharges. For the owner of the W. A. Parish plant, NRG Energy, this would have meant either spending hundreds of millions of dollars to put in two of the huge devices, or shutting down the coal-burning operations there. 
Before Scott Pruitt left his post as Mr. Trump's Environmental Protection Agency administrator, the agency notified NRG, as well as the owners of eight other Texas power plants, that the agency was no longer demanding the air pollution retrofits. 
Instead, the agency is working out an industry-backed alternative that will require no immediate reductions in air pollution by the Texas plants still in operation. 
The result, according to some of the United States' top air pollution experts, is measurable human and environmental costs. 
Even with the recent shutdowns of coal-burning plants, Texas remains one of the top sources of sulfur dioxide emissions. 
Every year that the W. A. Parish plant continues to operate as it has been, an estimated 180 people in Texas and surrounding states die prematurely, according to a recent study. Sulfur dioxide, colorless as it comes out of the smoke stacks, turns into tiny sulfate particles as it travels through the air -- small enough to pass through the lungs and enter the bloodstream. These particles can cause aggravated asthma, heart and lung disease, and other serious health problems. 
For Jennifer Cantu, who lives a few miles from W. A. Parish, the regulatory reversal is deeply personal. The plant pumped 37,649 tons of sulfur dioxide into the air last year, one of the highest levels among power plants in the United States. 
"It is the kind of thing you don't think about at all -- until you notice that ugly smell every once in a while," Ms. Cantu said. "And then you remember, 'There is that plant down there and I wonder: Should my daughters be playing outside?"' 
The effects are not limited to the immediate area. Haze created by the plant's exhaust mars mountaintop views in national forests and wildlife areas, including Caney Creek hundreds of miles away in Arkansas. 
No environmental issue has animated Mr. Trump more than coal. The president has often portrayed coal as the heart of a lost industrial glory he is determined to restore. And for political as well as economic reasons, he has sided regularly with the industry and users of coal, dismissing much existing environmental regulation as an unjustifiably expensive, job-killing intrusion on the American economy. 
The administration said emissions of many pollutants declined in Mr. Trump's first year in office and that it expects the declines to continue. "Despite a misleading narrative, our air is getting cleaner," said James Hewitt, a spokesman for the E.P.A. 
After decades of political, scientific and economic clashes over the issue, the trade-offs highlighted by Mr. Trump's policy shift in Texas raise a fundamental question: When it comes to the pace of environmental progress in the United States, when is enough enough? 
Supporters of Mr. Trump's deregulatory philosophy believe that much of his predecessor's approach placed unjustifiable costs on companies and the economy. In Texas, the Obama administration relied on a rule governing haze in national parks to push through what critics said was an excessively expensive and unnecessary set of requirements to limit emissions from burning coal. 
Texas officials and the power plant operators argue that Texas is much better off without the Obama-era mandate. 

They dispute that the sulfur dioxide discharged from the W. A. Parish plant is a health threat, or a major cause of haze in national parks and wildlife areas, despite the 
conclusions of the Obama-era E.P.A. and certain environmentalists. 
And more important, they say, the fact that power plants across Texas are cutting the overall amount of sulfur dioxide in the air at an even faster rate than the Obama E.P.A. 

had mandated -- without being forced to make expensive upgrades -- is proof that market forces are a better mechanism than the government for balancing the costs and 
benefits. 
"All of this basically is a question of how quickly do you get the desired results," said David Knox, a spokesman at NRG, as he gave a walking tour of the sprawling plant. 

Caney Creek 
To discourage the use of coal and promote alternatives, the Obama administration was creative and aggressive in wielding the regulatory tools available to it. On the issue of 
power generation in Texas, in 2016 the administration employed what is known as the Regional Haze rule, which was intended to deal not with air quality or public health in the 
immediate vicinity of the power plants, but with the effects their emissions had on visibility in national parklands far downwind. 

In this case, downwind included the Caney Creek Wilderness Area near Glenwood, Ark., 400 miles north of Houston. 
At the OK Cafe in Glenwood on a recent Sunday, the hot topics included the slow start of the deer hunting season and an upcoming runoff election for local sheriff. 
No one there had heard of the W. A. Parish plant. The Regional Haze rule was just as unfamiliar. 
John Sorrells, a disabled saw mill operator, has seen traces of the haze in question while hunting in the area near Caney Creek. The haze moves in from the south and takes 

over the hillsides, hitting up against the mountains, which run east to west here. 

"If the wind is blowing out of the south for five days or so, you will see it, especially in the summertime" Mr. Sorrells said. "It just covers the hills. It has got to be coming from somewhere." The Regional Haze rule, which dates to the Clinton administration, has a goal of gradually cleaning up haze in 156 national parks and wildlife areas, including such landmarks as 
Yosemite, Yellowstone and the Grand Canyon. 
Caney Creek, a pristine, 14,290-acre federally protected wilderness area on the southern edge of Arkansas' Ouachita National Forest, had its own visibility problems until that 

trend slowly started to turn around in the last decade. The improvement most likely accelerated this year, with the closing of several major coal-burning power plants in Texas. 
But the air clarity is still a long way from so-called natural conditions, when views can extend as far as 80 miles. 
The W. A. Parish plant, a 2016 E.P.A. assessment found, was noticeably causing haze at Caney Creek 22 days a year, and was a contributing factor in haze there on a total of 54 

days. 
NRG called the E.P.A. calculations "fundamentally flawed," disputing that W. A. Parish affects visibility at Caney Creek. But the agency's findings gave the Obama administration 
legal justification to step in and propose mandating the installation of scrubbers on a power plant more than 400 miles away. 

W. A. Parish 
Hundreds of buttons, dials and gauges blink, buzz and slide in one of the control rooms at the W. A. Parish plant, the central nervous system of a 4,900-acre site that allows the crews to watch as coal is ignited by an enormous fireball inside the boiler. The goal is to hit just the right temperature, about 3,000 degrees, as the steam generator turns turbines with so much power that the entire complex vibrates amid a deafening 
roar. 
One of Parish's four coal-burning boilers already has a scrubber, which douses the emerging exhaust with a mixture of water and limestone, extracting most of the sulfur dioxide. But the other three coal-burning units have no scrubber. Parish's control room monitors demonstrate in real time the difference a scrubber can make: The unit that has one was discharging 272 pounds of sulfur dioxide per hour from 
the 500-foot smokestacks. A separate unit with no scrubber was pumping out 3,250 pounds per hour. 
Stephen Hedge, the Parish plant's manager, said it had already invested a tremendous amount into cleaning up its air discharges. 
"We have got a lot of environmental controls on these plants," he said, detailing past efforts at Parish to significantly cut pollutants such as nitrogen oxide and mercury. 
Most significant, NRG in 2016 completed a $1 billion project -- the largest of its kind in the world -- that curbs the impact the plant has on climate change. Equipment collects 

some of the carbon dioxide generated by one of the four coal-burning units so it can be reused by injecting it into the ground to increase oil and gas production at nearby well 

sites. 
In the debate over how much more money should be spent to protect the environment, Texas residents have much at stake, said Daniel Cohan, an associate professor of 
environmental engineering at Rice University in Houston, and George D. Thurston, a professor of environmental medicine at New York University. 

Mr. Cohan estimated in a study published in October that Parish causes 180 premature deaths a year, based on a detailed analysis of emissions from the plant in the summer of 2015. An estimated 120 of those premature deaths would be avoided if scrubbers were installed on the plant as the Obama administration proposed, Mr. Cohan said. 
Dr. Thurston produced his own study that examined the health benefits of the Obama plan in greater detail. 
Lowering emissions at nine Texas power plants targeted by the Obama-era E.P.A., including Parish, would mean 1,300 fewer cases a year of acute bronchitis, as well as about 
100,000 fewer lost workdays from related illnesses and 125 fewer admissions a year to area hospitals for heart conditions, he concluded. 

Hoping to drive home the point to Mr. Pruitt, the former E.P.A. head, who is from Oklahoma, Dr. Thurston prepared a summary showing how the Obama policies would also 

benefit Oklahoma residents, given that air pollution from Texas often blows in that direction. 
The bottom line: Hundreds fewer Oklahomans would die prematurely each year, according to a chart that Dr. Thurston passed to Mr. Pruitt during a June 2017 meeting, where 
Dr. Thurston and other public health experts urged Mr. Pruitt not to reverse the Obama administration's proposed order demanding plant upgrades under the Regional Haze rule. 

"People in your own state won't get these health benefits from cleaner air if you don't follow through on this," Dr. Thurston said he told Mr. Pruitt. 
Mr. Pruitt's response, Dr. Thurston said, was blunt. 
"This is a visibility rule," Mr. Pruitt said. "Therefore the health impacts are irrelevant." 
The agency a few months later notified Texas that it was rejecting the Obama-era proposal. W. A. Parish and the eight other coal-burning plants in Texas would no longer face specific orders mandating air pollution upgrades. 
Environmental groups sued late last year to try to block the rollback. But even while this lawsuit has been pending, coal-burning power plants in the state have been shutting down for reasons beyond the potential costs of complying with the Obama policy. 
Allan Koenig, a vice president at Vistra Energy, which owns three of the coal-burning plants that have shut down in Texas this year, said his company was shifting to energy generated by renewable sources, such as a solar plant in West Texas that came online this year. 
"This is what our customers want," he said. "So a lot of this is taking place already." 
But the progress that has been made, while considerable, is still far short of what the Obama-era E.P.A. sought. 
And even after subtracting the emissions from the Texas coal-burning plants that closed this year, the state remains the top source of sulfur dioxide releases in the country. The 26 states with the lowest sulfur dioxide emissions from power plants -- a list that includes California and New York -- collectively produced 157,000 tons in 2016. That is less than Texas is still generating on its own, E.P.A. data suggests. 
Installing the scrubbers on the six remaining Texas power plants targeted by the Obama administration, including Parish, would mean 11,400 fewer cases a year of asthma attacks spread across 14 states, according to Dr. Thurston's calculations. It would also mean 600 fewer cases of acute bronchitis, about 40 fewer nonfatal heart attacks and about 310 fewer premature deaths every year. 
What these numbers suggest, Mr. Cohan said, is that now is not the time to stop. 
"Just because the water is getting cleaner does not mean we should not stop the industry from dumping huge amounts of hazardous waste in our rivers and lakes," he said. "Just because cars are getting cleaner does not mean we should not regulate the dirtiest cars and trucks on the road. It is the same thing with coal-burning plants like Parish. Sure, they are cleaner than they used to be. But they are still not clean enough." 

Photograph 
Premature deaths have been linked to emissions from the W.A. Parish plant, left, where coal deliveries by freight train, far left at top, are declining as Texas uses more natural gas. In the Parish control room, far left at bottom, workers monitored operations. The plant has been blamed for poor visibility at Caney Creek, below, a federally protected wilderness area in Arkansas. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GABRIELLA DEMCZUK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (F6-F7) MAP: Average amount of particle pollution from nine power plants (Sources: Daniel Cohan, associate professor of environmental engineering at Rice University, and Brian Strasert, environmental engineer at GSI Environmental.) (MAP BY SARAH ALMUKHTAR/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (F7) Copyright New York Times Company Dec 27, 2018 
Subject  Regulation; Asthma; Emissions; Environmental regulations; Air pollution; Wilderness areas; Outdoor air quality; Environmental protection; Industrial plant emissions; Shutdowns; National parks; Coal; Litigation; Power plants  
Location  Texas; United States--US; Arkansas  
Title  Easing a 'War on Coal': [SpecialSections]  
Author  Lipton, Eric  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
First page  F.6  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Dec 27, 2018  
Section  F  
Publisher  New York Times Company  

Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2160678224  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2160678224?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Dec 27, 2018  
Last updated  2018-12-27  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 5 of 236 


Talking Climate in a Polish Coal Town: [Foreign Desk] 
Plumer, Brad.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]27 Dec 2018: A.2. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Talking+Climate+in+a+Polish+Coal+Town%3A+%5BForeign+Desk%5D&title=Ne 12-27&volume=&issue=&spage=A.2&au=Plumer%2C+Brad&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Times Insider delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how news, features and opinion come together at The New York Times. 
The backdrop for this year's big United Nations climate talks seemed, at first, a bizarre choice. Diplomats from across the globe converged on Katowice, a city in the heart of Poland's southwestern coal-mining region, to discuss how the world's nations could accelerate their efforts to shift away from fossil fuels. 
But when I traveled to Poland last week to cover those climate talks, I discovered that the setting was fairly apt. 
Lately, climate policymakers around the world have been grappling with the fact that even the best-laid plans to tackle global warming will falter if they don't take into account people who might lose out from a shift to cleaner energy. And Poland offered a sharp illustration of just how difficult that can be in practice. 
Organizers of the climate conference had hoped that Katowice, home to some 300,000 people, could showcase how a place could edge away from fossil fuels and still thrive. The region, which had been mining coal since the 18th century, has in recent years been shuttering its local coal mines and diversifying into other industries such as automobile manufacturing. 
Signs of this transformation were everywhere. In the city center, a 131-foot-high former mine shaft tower now offered sightseers panoramic views of the city center. On the site of a former mining waste dump, the city had built a saucer-shaped arena complex that hosted all the United Nations delegates arriving to debate new details of the Paris climate agreement. Dozens of electric buses prowled the streets. 
I traveled with a local photographer, Karolina Jonderko, to the Nikiszowiec neighborhood of Katowice, which was built in 1908 to house local coal miners. After the fall of Communism in the 1990s, many of the nearby mines went out of business. The neighborhood was soon racked by joblessness and crime. 
But local leaders banded together to revitalize the area. Today, we found, Nikiszowiec's charming cobbled streets have become a popular tourist stop; its brick buildings now house artist workshops and young families. 
"There's a strong community here," said Grzegorz Chudy, 46, a local artist who moved here ten years ago. 
Inside the United Nations climate conference a few miles away, politicians and climate experts were talking of the need for a "just transition" away from polluting energy sources, in which workers who lost their jobs were able to find new livelihoods. Nikiszowiec seemed like a plausible demonstration of how that might work in practice. 
Yet there was still more to the story. Even as Katowice was installing long arrays of solar panels around town, the city was still getting most of its electricity from a giant coal-fired plant nearby that coated the air with a thick smog on many days. The city ranks as one of Europe's 50 most polluted, and a recent study found that the fouled air is decreasing life spans here by 1.5 years. 
Many of Katowice's residents still burn coal in furnaces inside their apartments for heating -- a particularly harmful source of pollution. Stefania Perska, 79, has such a furnace and keeps a window in her kitchen open for additional ventilation. The city has been slow to convert many buildings to central heating, and, while Ms. Perska would like to switch to a cleaner-burning gas unit, doing so would require a steep upfront investment and double or triple the cost of fuel -- a change she couldn't afford by herself on her pension. 
Elsewhere, the transition away from coal looked even more complicated. In the smaller city of Zabrze, east of Katowice, the last coal mine closed last year, and the area has struggled to find a new economic engine. The unemployment rate is three times as high as in Katowice. Former miners, who had long referred to coal as "the mother that feeds," lamented the loss. 
"The mining industry used to organize the culture of this city," said Dariusz Eliasz, 53, a former miner who is now an event manager at a retired mine in Zabrze that has been turned into a museum. "Now people commute elsewhere for work, and it's dissolved the community." 
A few minutes away, in an office across the street from another shuttered mine, Andrzej Chwiluk, the former head of a miners union, seethed at Poland's policymakers for giving the miners little notice before closing the mine and failing to create a plan for alternative sources of employment. And he had a warning for the diplomats who were huddled, at that minute, in intense climate policy negotiations at the climate conference. 
"It's not true about us miners that we're opposed to change or that we want to destroy the planet," Mr. Chwiluk said. "But if there aren't safety measures put in place for the workers" during a transition away from coal, he said, "there will be resistance." 
At a time when "Yellow Vest" protests, which began over a carbon-tax proposal, were erupting in France, it was a lesson that many inside the United Nations climate talks were wrestling with as they wrote rules that would implement the Paris Agreement. Some, like President Andrzej Duda of Poland, insisted that their countries could not "fully give up on coal." Others suggested strategies for shifting the country to cleaner energy while minimizing social dislocation. 
It was a theme I tried to keep in mind while writing about the outcome of those negotiations. By the end of the conference, nearly 200 countries had approved a new global agreement to try to step up efforts on climate change. But ultimately, those countries themselves still face an enormous task back home of creating a low-carbon future that doesn't leave too many people behind. 
Keep up with Times Insider stories on Twitter, via the Reader Center: @ReaderCenter. 

Photograph 
Many in the area where the United Nations climate talks took place heat their homes with coal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KAROLINA JONDERKO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) Copyright New York Times Company Dec 27, 2018 
Subject  Unemployment; Mines; Fossil fuels; Coal mining; Environmental policy; Climate change  
Location  New York; Poland; France; Europe  
People  Duda, Andrzej  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  New York Times Co 511110, 511120, 515112, 515120;  
Name: NAICS:  United Nations--UN 928120;  
Name: NAICS:  Twitter Inc 519130  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/19/reader-center/katowice-climate-talks.html  
Title  Talking Climate in a Polish Coal Town: [Foreign Desk]  
Author  Plumer, Brad  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
First page  A.2  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Dec 27, 2018  
column  Times Insider  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  

Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2160677478  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2160677478?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Dec 27, 2018  
Last updated  2018-12-27  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 6 of 236 


Germany Closes Its Last Black-Coal Mine: [List] 
New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]25 Dec 2018: B.2. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Germany+Closes+Its+Last+Black­Coal+Mine%3A+%5BList%5D&title=New+York+Times&issn=03624331&date=2018-12­25&volume=&issue=&spage=B.2&au=&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
BERLIN -- Straining to hold back tears, their once-white helmets and overalls smeared with dust, seven miners in Germany stepped out of a metal cage bearing the last lump of 
black coal that they would haul up from more than 3,000 feet below. 
The men, at the Prosper-Haniel mine on Friday, handed the football-size chunk of coal to President Frank-Walter Steinmeier with the words "Glueck Auf." This ancient miners' 
greeting roughly translates as "good luck," reflecting the uncertainty of a life spent prospecting deep underground. 

The ceremony represented the end of an industry that laid the foundations for Germany's industrial revolution and its postwar economic recovery. 

"A piece of German history is coming to an end here," Mr. Steinmeier told the miners. "Without it, our entire country and its development over the past 200 years would have 
been unthinkable." 
The Prosper-Haniel mine in the western city of Bottrop and another colliery in Ibbenbueren, about 60 miles to the north, were the last remnants of an industry that once 

dominated the region, employing half a million people at its peak in the 1950s. Together, they helped feed the Ruhr Valley's hungry steel mills until imports of cheaper, foreign 

coal made Germany's "black gold" lose its sheen. 
For decades, the mines survived only thanks to generous subsidies. But in 2007, a political decision was made to phase them out, with a promise of early retirement or 
retraining for their remaining workers. 

According to government figures, Germany's coal mining industry has received more than 40 billion euros ($46 billion) in federal funds since 1998 and is set to get 2.7 billion euros through 2022. Some of the money is needed for mine maintenance and environmental cleanup efforts that include preventing parts of the Ruhr region from slowly sinking as myriad tunnels give way over time. 
Further vast sums have been spent supporting economic redevelopment in the region, which has experienced growth in universities, research facilities and tech start-ups in 
recent years. 
Mr. Steinmeier urged the miners and their loved ones to look to the future, but also to take pride in a culture of hospitality and openness. The Ruhr region became a melting pot 
starting in the 19th century, as successive waves of immigrants arrived -- from Poland, Italy and Turkey -- in search of well-paid work in the mines. 

The end of deep-shaft mining is seen as a test for the planned closing of open-cast lignite, or brown coal, mines that still operate in Germany. 

The country still generates almost two-fifths of its electricity from burning coal, a situation that scientists say cannot continue if Germany wants to reduce its greenhouse gas 
emissions. Lignite is considered even dirtier than black coal but remains relatively cheap to extract, even in Germany. 
More than 400 coal mining regions around the world will face similar pressures to shut down in the coming decades amid international efforts to curb global warming. 
Some in Germany fear that other sources of energy -- chiefly renewables -- may not be enough to power an industrial nation, especially as the country also plans to shut down 

its nuclear plants by 2022. 
A government-appointed panel is due to deliver a report in February laying out proposals for the gradual phasing out of lignite mines. 
Toward the end of Friday's ceremony, miners paid their respects to colleagues who had lost their lives underground. The dangers were highlighted Monday, when a 29-year-old 

worker was crushed to death by a metal door in the Ibbenbueren shaft. 
And overnight Friday, news emerged of the deaths of 13 miners in an explosion at a colliery in the Czech Republic. 
Credit: THE ASSOCIATED PRESS 


Photograph 
A ceremony on Friday shut the Prosper-Haniel mine in Bottrop, Germany. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHE GATEAU/DPA, VIA AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) Copyright New York Times Company Dec 25, 2018 
Subject  Mines;  
Coal mining;  
Rites & ceremonies  
Location  Italy; Czech Republic; Poland; Turkey; Ruhr Valley; Germany  
People  Steinmeier, Frank-Walter  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/24/business/germany-closes-its-last-black-coal-mine.html  
Title  Germany Closes Its Last Black-Coal Mine: [List]  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
First page  B.2  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Dec 25, 2018  
Section  B  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2160099524  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2160099524?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Dec 25, 2018  
Last updated  2018-12-25  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 7 of 236 


Ryan Zinke, Into the Sunset: [Editorial] 
New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]18 Dec 2018: A.22. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Ryan+Zinke%2C+Into+the+Sunset%3A+%5BEditorial%5D&title=New+York+ 12-18&volume=&issue=&spage=A.22&au=&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Ryan Zinke, the secretary of the Interior, is the second devoted cheerleader for President Trump's boneheaded strategy of "energy dominance" to be ushered out the door. The first was Scott Pruitt, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. Like Mr. Pruitt, Mr. Zinke leaves under a cloud of possible ethical violations. Also like Mr. Pruitt, Mr. Zinke promoted the rapid development of fossil fuels -- coal in Mr. Pruitt's case, oil and gas in Mr. Zinke's -- at a time when nearly every reputable scientist says that the world needs to produce and consume less of these fuels, not more, and swiftly replace them with carbon-free alternatives to avert the worst consequences of climate change. 
Unfortunately for the environmental community, not to mention the health of the planet, there is likely to be little change in policy at the Interior Department, just as there was no fundamental change at the E.P.A., where Andrew R. Wheeler, an industry lobbyist, replaced Mr. Pruitt. Mr. Zinke's second in command and possible successor is David Bernhardt, a former lobbyist and an oil and gas man to the core. 
And lest we forget, the policy is synonymous with Mr. Trump himself: His appointees in the environmental arena were chosen for their fealty to the America First energy strategy contained in a series of executive orders early in his presidency aimed at rolling back just about every useful thing President Barack Obama had done to combat global warming and protect priceless public lands from commercial intrusion. 
Despite serving less than two years, Mr. Zinke racked up an impressive number of ethics investigations. At last count, his leadership had spurred some 15 inquiries into a colorful array of purported misbehavior ranging from conflicts of interest to the misuse of taxpayer funds to violating the Hatch Act, which bars federal officials from using their positions to influence elections. 
Nine of the investigations have been closed -- some because Mr. Zinke was cleared, others because his department refused to cooperate. Among the cases to stall because of stonewalling was an inquiry into whether Mr. Zinke threatened a United States senator, Lisa Murkowski, a Republican from Alaska, over her votes on health care. 
Of the half dozen investigations that are continuing, one has been referred to the Department of Justice for further exploration, The Times has reported. It has not been made public which of Mr. Zinke's many missteps may constitute full-blown criminality, but a person familiar with the matter says it most likely relates to a possible conflict of interest involving a potential land deal between Mr. Zinke and the energy giant Halliburton, which the department regulates. 
Mr. Zinke attributed his departure to "vicious and politically motivated attacks." He said he had better things to do than spend time and money defending himself against false charges. 
With regards to policy, Mr. Zinke has been a faithful servant of Mr. Trump's vision of energy and environmental policy, such as it is. At a very weird cabinet meeting in June of last year, at which cabinet members went around the table lavishing praise on Mr. Trump, Mr. Zinke told the president it was "an honor to be your steward of our public lands and the generator of energy dominance." 
Generator yes, steward no. His five-year plan for oil and gas exploration opened up vast swaths of America's outer continental shelf that had been off limits (while exempting coastal Florida as an apparent political favor to the state's Republican governor, Rick Scott, who was facing a tough re-election bid). He took special aim at Mr. Obama's last-minute plan to protect most of the Arctic's vulnerable waters from further exploration. He supported Mr. Murkowski's tax amendment opening up the coastal plain of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to drilling, and on his own moved to promote exploration in the 22.8 million acres of Alaska's National Petroleum Reserve, including ecologically valuable areas that the Obama administration intended to be protected in perpetuity. 
Not least, with Mr. Bernhardt as the architect, Mr. Zinke recently proposed to make it much easier for oil and gas companies to drill on millions of acres of Western lands that the Obama administration had set aside to promote the recovery of the sage grouse, a threatened bird. 
Mr. Zinke had a Western swagger to him that some found appealing, but on matters of public relations he was not the sharpest knife in the drawer. When promoting various policies, he often referred to himself as a professional "geologist," when in fact he had received only a long-ago undergraduate degree in geology before joining the military. 
Mr. Zinke, a Montana native and former Navy SEAL who served a little over two years in the House, is said to have further political ambitions. He should have no problem finding donors in the energy and mining industries and among gun enthusiasts unless his ethical problems make him radioactive. The guest list for his farewell Christmas party included oil and gas lobbyists and conservative activists whose interests he worked tirelessly to promote. 
Mr. Zinke made an enemy late last month of the soon-to-be-chairman of the House Natural Resources Committee, Raúl M. Grijalva, an Arizona Democrat, accusing him on Twitter of being a drunk who used taxpayer money to cover up a personal scandal. Mr. Grijalva, who had earlier called on Mr. Zinke to resign, was restrained in his reaction on Saturday. "This is no kind of victory, but I am hopeful it is a genuine turning of the page," he wrote. 
On his first day in office, Mr. Zinke rode a horse to work, in plain imitation of Teddy Roosevelt. As president, Mr. Roosevelt protected 230 million acres of American wilderness, including 18 national monuments. Ten months into his tenure as Interior secretary, Mr. Zinke recommended the withdrawal of some two million acres from two national 
monuments in Utah established by Mr. Obama and Bill Clinton, the largest shrinkage of public land protection in history. He has not improved on this record since. 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram . 
Credit: THE EDITORIAL BOARD 


Photograph 
Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke in August. He will be leaving the Trump administration at the end of the year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM BRENNER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) Copyright New York Times Company Dec 18, 2018 
Subject  Presidents; Lobbyists; Energy; Climate change; Public lands; Conflicts of interest; Natural gas utilities; Resignations; Editorials; Political ethics; Environmental protection; Environmental policy  
Location  United States--US  
People  Trump, Donald J; Zinke, Ryan; Pruitt, Scott; Bernhardt, David  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 924110;  
Name: NAICS:  Department of Justice 922130;  
Name: NAICS:  Arctic National Wildlife Refuge 712190, 924120  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/15/opinion/ryan-zinke-interior-resigns-trump.html  
Title  Ryan Zinke, Into the Sunset: [Editorial]  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.22  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Dec 18, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Editorial  

ProQuest document ID  2157731640  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2157731640?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Dec 18, 2018  
Last updated  2018-12-18  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 8 of 236 


Leader of Interior Dept. Resigns Under Cloud of Ethics Inquiries: [National Desk] 
Turkewitz, Julie; Davenport, Coral.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]16 Dec 2018: A.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Leader+of+Interior+Dept.+Resigns+Under+Cloud+of+Ethics+Inquiries%3A+%5 12-16&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Turkewitz%2C+Julie%3BDavenport%2C+Coral&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke, a key figure in President Trump's sweeping plan to reshape the nation's environmental framework, resigned under pressure on Saturday as he faces numerous ethics investigations into his business dealings, travel and policy decisions. 
"Secretary of the Interior @RyanZinke will be leaving the Administration at the end of the year after having served for a period of almost two years," Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. "Ryan has accomplished much during his tenure and I want to thank him for his service to our Nation." The president said he would name a replacement this coming week. 
Mr. Zinke is the latest Trump official to exit an administration plagued by questions of ethical conflict. And his departure comes as Mr. Trump has begun a shake-up in his administration. In early November, the president fired Attorney General Jeff Sessions, and last weekend he announced that his chief of staff, John F. Kelly, was leaving. 
In one of the final acts of Mr. Kelly's tenure, his team told Mr. Zinke that he should leave by year's end or risk being fired in a potentially humiliating way, two people familiar with the discussion said. 
Mr. Trump has been looking at replacing a number of other cabinet officials. He has been telling associates for weeks that the commerce secretary, Wilbur Ross, will be leaving now that the midterm elections are over, and he has also frequently complained about Betsy DeVos, the education secretary. The homeland security secretary, Kirstjen Nielsen, is also seen as likely to depart soon. 
But Mr. Trump is aware that the confirmation processes for any new nominees are likely to be more contentious in the second half of his term, as he faces re-election. 
Mr. Zinke, a former Montana congressman and member of the Navy SEALs best known for riding an Irish sport horse through Washington on his first day in office, oversaw mineral extraction and conservation on roughly 500 million acres of public land. He had become the subject of several federal investigations, one of which his department's top watchdog has referred to the Justice Department, a potential step toward a criminal investigation. 
The inquiries include an examination of a real estate deal involving Mr. Zinke's family and a development group backed by the Halliburton chairman, David J. Lesar. Mr. Zinke stood to benefit from the deal, while Mr. Lesar's oil services company stood to benefit from Mr. Zinke's decisions on fossil fuel production. 
Mr. Zinke has repeatedly denied wrongdoing. "I love working for the President and am incredibly proud of all the good work we've accomplished together," he said on Twitter. "However, after 30 years of public service, I cannot justify spending thousands of dollars defending myself and my family against false allegations." 
Mr. Trump had tolerated the seemingly endless drips of scandal surrounding Mr. Zinke in part because he liked him personally and in part because his focus on the cabinet was concentrated on his desire to oust Mr. Sessions. 
At the same time, though, Mr. Trump disliked the bad press that was amassing for Mr. Zinke, given how it reflected on him personally. And as the incoming House Democratic majority made clear that Mr. Zinke would be a prime target, Mr. Trump's aides convinced him that the time had come to shove out Mr. Zinke. 
A few months ago, the White House Counsel's Office indicated to some West Wing aides that officials would be less likely to be subpoenaed by the new House majority if they left before the new Congress was sworn in in January. That has helped speed up the departures of several. 
"This is no kind of victory, but I'm hopeful that it is a genuine turning of the page," said Representative Raúl M. Grijalva, who as the incoming chairman of the House Natural Resources Committee has repeatedly tangled with Mr. Zinke. He added, "The next interior secretary should respect the American people's desire for strong environmental standards and an end to corporate favoritism." 
Mr. Zinke's exit follows that of the other major architect of the Trump administration's environmental policies, Scott Pruitt, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. Mr. Pruitt, also known for his aggressive rollback of environmental regulations, resigned in July amid questions about alleged spending abuses, first-class travel and cozy relationships with lobbyists. Among other actions, Mr. Pruitt came under fire for reaching out to the chief executive of Chick-fil-A with the intent of helping his wife open a franchise. 
Beyond examining the real estate deal, the Interior Department's inspector general had faulted Mr. Zinke for allowing his wife, Lola, to travel in government vehicles, contrary to department policy, and chided him for using $12,000 in taxpayer money to take a charter plane after a talk to a hockey team owned by one of his biggest donors. 
The inspector general has also been examining the secretary's decision to block two Native American tribes from opening a casino in Connecticut after his office received heavy lobbying from MGM Resorts International. The entertainment giant had been planning its own casino not far from the proposed tribal one. 
Delaney Marsco, ethics counsel at the Campaign Legal Center, a nonpartisan watchdog group, said Mr. Zinke's actions had sometimes been overshadowed by Mr. Pruitt's more obvious fumbles. That let the secretary operate in an "ethical Wild West," she said. 
"There are these laws and these ethical norms that are being blown to bits by these cabinet secretaries," Ms. Marsco said. "And that's the pattern, the problem, that keeps us up at night." 
The federal investigations follow several other examinations of Mr. Zinke's behavior. He has been criticized for claiming on dozens of occasions that he is a geologist, though he has never held a job as one. When he was a candidate for Congress, campaign finance experts questioned whether it was legal for him to benefit from a super PAC that he had created. And as a Navy SEAL, he admitted to improperly billing the government $211 for a trip home to Montana, something that two admirals told The New York Times prevented him from rising to senior levels in the Navy. 
Mr. Zinke's resignation, rather than an end to his pro-fossil fuel policies, quite likely signals a passing of the playbook. Mr. Zinke's deputy, David Bernhardt, a former oil lobbyist, is expected to step in as acting head of the department. 
Mr. Zinke, 57, grew up in Whitefish, Mont., a timber and tourism town at the edge of Glacier National Park. When he took charge of the Interior Department, he promised that his youth in the West would help him balance conservation and extraction on the land in his care. Much of that land is in the West, and it includes the national parks and monuments that have become the nation's environmental icons. 
With his flashy leadership style and aggressive approach to deregulation, Mr. Zinke had largely escaped the public thrashing that Mr. Trump has directed at other cabinet members. But in recent weeks the president had signaled that the secretary's tenure might be coming to end, possibly as a result of the ethics inquiries. 
"I do want to study whatever is being said," Mr. Trump said at a news conference on Nov. 7, referring to the investigations into Mr. Zinke. "I think he's doing an excellent job, but we will take a look at that, and we'll probably have an idea on that in about a week." 
Mr. Zinke was considered a surprise choice for the position. He had reportedly gained favor with Donald Trump Jr., because, like the president's son, he is an avid game hunter. 
He ran the office with a swaggering flair that won him the admiration of the president and conservative Westerners, many of whom applauded his effort to move major department operations to places like Denver or Boise, Idaho. But his style also drew derision from the environmental community and the quiet mockery of many career staff members in his own agency. 
In Washington, he flew a special interior secretary flag above the Interior building when he was present, and he often skipped a coat and tie for fishing shirts and boots. Beyond the capital, he hiked and rode across landscapes in a cowboy hat, even as he pushed plans to drastically reduce monument boundaries. 
In June, Politico reported that Mr. Lesar, the Halliburton chairman, was lending financial backing to a major development in Mr. Zinke's hometown, Whitefish, that would significantly raise the value of property owned by Mr. Zinke. The development would include a hotel, shops and a brewery, and Mr. Zinke's wife had pledged in writing to allow the developer to build a parking lot that would help make the project possible. The land for the potential lot is owned by a foundation created by Mr. Zinke. 
Because Halliburton is the nation's largest oil services company, and because Mr. Zinke regulates the oil industry on public land, the deal raised questions as to whether it constituted a conflict of interest. Mr. Zinke's schedule also showed that he had hosted Mr. Lesar and a developer involved with the hotel-brewery project in his secretarial office in 2017. 
In response, three Democrats sent a letter to the Interior Department's top watchdog, Mary L. Kendall, requesting an investigation into whether Mr. Zinke had used his position as secretary for personal financial gain. In July, Ms. Kendall complied, opening an investigation. In October, her department forwarded at least one inquiry to the Justice Department. 
Heather Swift, a spokeswoman for Mr. Zinke, has said that the secretary did nothing wrong and that he resigned from his charitable foundation's board of directors before the deal was made. 
Before Mr. Zinke joined the Trump administration, he often called himself a conservative conservationist. But as secretary, he quickly became one of the chief proponents of Mr. Trump's energy-first agenda, promoting policies that seek to open the East Coast to offshore drilling, weaken the standards of the Endangered Species Act and shrink two national monuments, constituting the largest rollback of federal land protection in the nation's history. 
Last year under Mr. Zinke, the United States offered up 12.8 million acres of federally controlled oil and gas parcels for lease, triple the average offered during President Barack Obama's second term, according to an analysis by The New York Times. 
These policies won Mr. Zinke favor with Mr. Trump, who had made promotion of the fossil fuel industry a key part of his campaign platform, as well as from the oil and gas companies that had increasingly made up Mr. Zinke's donor base as a Montana politician. 
His policies have angered environmentalists, who have filed lawsuits trying to block these plans. Many have argued that Mr. Zinke has turned his back on the nation's environmental heritage just as dire news about climate change has made land, water and air protection increasingly urgent. 
The likely replacement by Mr. Bernhardt of his former boss in an acting capacity echoes events that followed the resignation of Mr. Pruitt at the E.P.A. Mr. Pruitt, once a favorite of Mr. Trump's for many of the same reasons as Mr. Zinke, was replaced in an acting capacity by his deputy, Andrew Wheeler, a former coal lobbyist with a low profile and a deep knowledge of the agency he ran and the regulations he sought to undo. 
While Mr. Zinke spent his tenure as the face of many of the Trump administration's efforts, many on the inside saw Mr. Bernhardt as the effective manager who was able to push policies through. Mr. Bernhardt, with years of experience in the George W. Bush administration, and as a former lawyer and lobbyist for some of the nation's largest oil companies, brings a deep insider's knowledge to his job that Mr. Zinke lacked. His former legal clients included the Independent Petroleum Association of America and Halliburton. 
Since his Senate confirmation last summer, Mr. Bernhardt has generated criticism from environmental and government watchdog groups that his new role will create a conflict of interest, as he oversees proposals that could directly benefit his former clients. 
Follow Julie Turkewitz and Coral Davenport on Twitter: @julieturkewitz and @coralmdavenport. 
Credit: JULIE TURKEWITZ and CORAL DAVENPORT; Maggie Haberman and Sheryl Gay Stolberg contributed reporting. 
Photograph 
Ryan Zinke helped reshape federal environmental policy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC THAYER/REUTERS) (A1); Ryan Zinke, the secretary of the Interior Department, in Rocky Mountain Park, Colo., last year. At left, Mr. Zinke, a former Montana congressman, rode a horse through Washington on his first day in office. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RYAN DAVID BROWN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; INTERIOR DEPARTMENT, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A17) Copyright New York Times Company Dec 16, 2018 
Subject  Endangered & extinct species; Political finance; Charitable foundations; Conflicts of interest; Presidents; Tenure; Lobbyists; Political ethics; Environmental protection; Environmental policy; Natural gas utilities; Congressional elections; Resignations  
Location  United States--US  
People  Zinke, Ryan; Trump, Donald J; Kelly, John F; Ross, Wilbur L Jr; DeVos, Betsy  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Congress 921120;  
Name: NAICS:  Department of the Interior 924120  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/15/us/ryan-zinke-interior-secretary.html  
Title  Leader of Interior Dept. Resigns Under Cloud of Ethics Inquiries: [National Desk]  
Author  Turkewitz, Julie; Davenport, Coral  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.1  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Dec 16, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2156751636  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2156751636?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Dec 16, 2018  

Last updated 2019-08-20 
Database Global Newsstream 
document 9 of 236 



Climate Accord Remains Alive As Crisis Builds: [Foreign Desk] 
Plumer, Brad.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]16 Dec 2018: A.1. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Climate+Accord+Remains+Alive+As+Crisis+Builds%3A+%5BForeign+Desk%5D 12-16&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Plumer%2C+Brad&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd: , our email newsletter. 
KATOWICE, Poland -- Diplomats from nearly 200 countries reached a deal on Saturday to keep the Paris climate agreement alive by adopting a detailed set of rules to implement the pact. 
The deal, struck after an all-night bargaining session, will ultimately require every country in the world to follow a uniform set of standards for measuring their planet-warming emissions and tracking their climate policies. And it calls on countries to step up their plans to cut emissions ahead of another round of talks in 2020. 
It also calls on richer countries to be clearer about the aid they intend to offer to help poorer nations install more clean energy or build resilience against natural disasters. And it builds a process in which countries that are struggling to meet their emissions goals can get help in getting back on track. 
The United States agreed to the deal despite President Trump's vow to abandon the Paris Agreement. Diplomats and climate change activists said they hoped that fact would make it easier for the administration to change its mind and stay in the Paris Agreement, or for a future president to embrace the accord once again. The United States cannot formally withdraw from the agreement until late 2020. 
Observers said United States negotiators worked constructively behind the scenes with China on transparency rules. The two countries had long been at odds because China had insisted on different reporting rules for developing countries, while the United States favored consistent emissions-accounting rules and wanted all countries to be subject to the same outside scrutiny. 
"The U.S. got a clear methodology to make sure that China and India are meeting their targets," said Jake Schmidt, international policy director at the Natural Resources Defense Council. "That creates the level playing field they have been asking for." 
Many of the attendees at this year's United Nations climate talks -- known as COP24, shorthand for their formal name -- expressed disappointment at what they saw as half measures to deal with a mounting climate crisis. Greenhouse gas emissions are still rising around the world, and millions of people are facing increased risks from severe droughts, floods and wildfires. 
But supporters of the deal reached Saturday said that they hoped the new rules would help build a virtuous cycle of trust and cooperation among countries, at a time when global politics seems increasingly fractured. 
"Particularly given the broader geopolitical context, this is a pretty solid outcome," said Elliot Diringer, executive vice president of the Center for Climate and Energy Solutions. "It delivers what we need to get the Paris Agreement off the ground." 
"The fundamentals are in place," Mr. Diringer added. 
Not every country got what it wanted at the meeting, which had been scheduled to end on Friday. Developing nations were hoping for more robust promises on climate aid, but that issue has been postponed for future talks. 
The negotiations over the Paris rule book, often dense and technical, were frequently bogged down by sharp political disputes inside the saucer-shaped convention center here in Katowice, at the heart of Poland's coal country. 
Midway through the conference, a huge fight over climate science, with the Trump administration at the center, threatened to derail the negotiations altogether. 
Most delegates at the talks had wanted to formally endorse a major report issued in October by the United Nations scientific panel on climate change, which said that fossil-fuel emissions would have to fall roughly in half within 12 years to avoid severe climate disruptions. 
But the United States and three other big oil producers -- Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Russia -- tried to weaken the statement's language, enraging delegates from some of the most at-risk nations. By Friday, negotiators had crafted compromise language that expressed "appreciation and gratitude" for the report. 
Then, on Friday, Brazil's delegation held up the talks all through the night because it was fiercely opposed to proposed changes in rules around carbon trading markets. Negotiators eventually agreed to table the issue until next year. 
With a diplomatic framework still alive and rules of the road in place, analysts said it was now up to individual countries to come back before the 2020 talks with concrete pledges to cut emissions more deeply. A few countries, including Chile, Vietnam and Norway, have already said they will start that review process. 
When world leaders signed the Paris agreement in 2015, they said they would try to limit the rise in global temperatures to roughly 1.5 degrees Celsius, or 2.7 degrees Fahrenheit, above preindustrial levels to avoid climate-related disasters like widespread food shortages and mass coral die-offs. 
But with global fossil-fuel emissions still rising each year, the planet is now quite likely to cross that temperature threshold within 35 years. 
"The real test is what happens when countries go home," said Alden Meyer, director of policy and strategy at the Union of Concerned Scientists. "All the decision text in the world doesn't cut a molecule of carbon. You need action on the ground." 
In some countries, political obstacles to climate action are mounting. 
For instance, at the Poland talks, several European Union officials pledged that the bloc would pursue stronger measures to cut emissions before 2020. But inside the union, discussions over a more ambitious climate target have dragged on, in part because Britain is distracted by Brexit; France is struggling with "Yellow Vests" protests; and Germany is grappling with its own difficulties in phasing out coal. 
"We can't ignore that there are a lot of headwinds," said Laurence Tubiana, France's former climate change envoy and a key architect of the Paris agreement. 
Some experts at the talks argued that the march of cheaper, cleaner energy technologies would do far more to break the deadlock around climate policy than any complicated treaties could. 
"Look at countries like China and India that are going ahead with renewables for their own reasons," said Saleemul Huq, director of Bangladesh's International Center for Climate Change and Development. "That's what we need: for countries to move in that direction because it makes sense to them, not because they signed up for an agreement and they're supposed to." 
Even some of the exhausted politicians in the thick of this week's climate negotiations were ready to acknowledge the limits of diplomacy. 
"Of course it's important to have these rules, but a lot of the real action is happening by entrepreneurs; it's happening by business people; it's happening by the finance sector; by the money flowing; it's happening at the city and state level," said Catherine McKenna, Canada's environment minister. 
"Climate change is a complicated problem," she said, "and it's not going to be solved by national governments alone." 
For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. 

Photograph 
Michal Kurtyka, president of the climate talks in Katowice, Poland, leapt over his desk as the final session ended on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KACPER PEMPEL/REUTERS) (A4) Copyright New York Times Company Dec 16, 2018 
Subject 	Emissions; 

Diplomacy; 
Diplomatic & consular services; 

Presidents; 
Environmental policy; 
Climate change; 
Paris Agreement; 

International; 
Emission standards 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Trump, Donald J 
Company / organization 	Name: Natural Resources Defense Council 

NAICS: 813312; 

Name: United Nations--UN NAICS: 928120; 
Name: European Union NAICS: 926110, 928120 
URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/15/climate/cop24-katowice-climate-summit.html 
Title 	Climate Accord Remains Alive As Crisis Builds: [Foreign Desk] 
Author 	Plumer, Brad 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.1 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Dec 16, 2018 
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2156745590  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2156745590?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Dec 16, 2018  
Last updated  2018-12-18  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 10 of 236 


The Class Divide on Saving the Planet: [Op-Ed] 
Gross, Neil.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]16 Dec 2018: SR.2. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=The+Class+Divide+on+Saving+the+Planet%3A+%5BOp­Ed%5D&title=New+York+Times&issn=03624331&date=2018-12­16&volume=&issue=&spage=SR.2&au=Gross%2C+Neil&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
The Yellow Vest protests that have convulsed France for the past few weeks, leaving chic Parisian neighborhoods smoldering, are making environmentalists nervous. 
The protests began in reaction to President Emmanuel Macron's announcement that a planned increase in taxes on gasoline, part of an ongoing ambitious effort to combat global warming, would take effect in January. Though the tax was favored by Parisians, who have access to efficient public transportation, it was seen as a provocation by struggling residents of the country's rural and suburban areas. ("The taxes are rising on everything," a rural retiree told a reporter from this newspaper. "They put taxes on top of taxes.") Caught off guard by the intensity and popularity of the protests, Mr. Macron backed down on the tax hike, but not before the Yellow Vest movement morphed into a leaderless, anti-establishment revolt that now threatens his government. 
As with working-class support for the faltering coal industry in the United States, the question arises: Is environmentalism a boutique issue, a cause only the well-off can afford to worry about? 
Some social science suggests the answer is yes. In a landmark 1995 paper, the sociologist Ronald Inglehart observed an intriguing pattern in public support for the environmental movement. According to a public opinion survey he conducted in 43 nations, the countries where large percentages of the population supported strong environmental policies shared two characteristics: They were dealing with major environmental challenges (air and water pollution and species conservation were among the top priorities at the time) and they were affluent. 
Mr. Inglehart argued that citizens were apt to prioritize environmental concerns only if they were rich enough not to have to fret about more basic things like food and shelter. Environmentalism was part of a larger "postmaterialist" mind-set, focused on human self-realization and quality of life, that was naturally to be found in the world's economically advanced societies -- and especially among better-educated, wealthier citizens. Mr. Inglehart anticipated that growing prosperity, rising education levels and increasingly dire environmental circumstances would translate into the further spread of environmental consciousness in the years to come. 
In some ways the situation in France fits this theory. France is wealthy and well educated. And environmentalism is big there. A 2017 study, for instance, found that 79 percent of the French population believes climate change to be a very serious problem. It is plausible to think that some of the anger the Yellow Vests are unleashing on Paris revolves around the cultural gap separating those French citizens privileged enough to be able to devote time, attention and money to matters like the environment from those not as fortunate. 
Thought-provoking as Mr. Inglehart's thesis is, however, it's not hard to identify weaknesses. Here's an obvious one: The United States, like France, is a prosperous country with a well-educated population. Yet according to a survey conducted this year by the Pew Research Center, only 44 percent of Americans say they care a great deal about climate change. 
More recent research bolsters this skeptical view. Work by the sociologists Riley Dunlap and Richard York, based on a wider range of data, turns Mr. Inglehart's finding on its head: They have discovered that the publics of poorer countries facing imminent resource loss from environmental destruction often hold the strongest pro-environment attitudes. For example, the island nation of Fiji -- which stands to be decimated by global warming, rising sea levels and storms -- ratified the Paris climate agreement on a unanimous parliamentary vote before any other nation did. 
Another study, by the political scientist Matto Mildenberger and the geographer Anthony Leiserowitz, has found "no evidence" that people became less attuned to climate change when their economic prospects dwindled after the 2008 financial crisis. 
Mr. Dunlap and Mr. York emphasize the contingency and variability of public support for environmental causes and practices. How much backing there will be -- and in what quarters -- depends on the specific environmental, economic and political conditions countries face. Environmental protection efforts can advance if the environmental movement acts strategically. 
The notion that there are few hard-and-fast rules when it comes to public support for environmentalism has influenced the response of environmentalists to the Yellow Vest protests. While raising taxes to reduce fossil fuel consumption or fund green energy transitions is essential, they say, depending on how and when such policies are proposed, they may spur a backlash. So smart rollouts and messaging matter. Mr. Macron's environmental policies, for example, were announced from on high, without meaningful input from all the communities that would be affected. 
Environmentalists insist that there is no reason in principle why a more effective communications strategy could not be found to pull together urban dwellers and the rural working- and lower-middle-class in a broad environmental coalition. The fact that the French public is sympathetic to the cause of the Yellow Vests but also concerned about the climate shows that the protests were never really about the environment in the first place. 
Such a perspective is comforting. But it arguably understates the magnitude of the problem the environmental movement now confronts. Yes, contrary to the theory of postmaterialism, the well-off aren't the only ones who care about climate change and the environment. Yet in many of today's capitalist democracies, class and status resentments, fostered by rampant inequality and whipped up by opportunistic politicians, have developed to such an extent that issues like the environment that affect everyone are increasingly seen through the lens of group conflict and partisan struggle. 
Differences between urban and rural, new economy and old, college educated versus working class and cosmopolitan versus local loom larger than ever. Although the research of the sociologist Dana R. Fisher shows that in the United States, climate change activists have been working to diversify their ranks, the trust needed for truly large-scale environmental coalition building is wearing thin. 
Thus a different interpretation of the Yellow Vest protest may be warranted. Without a concerted effort to address inequality -- which some in the environmental movement consider someone else's department -- the bold policy changes needed to slow global warming risk never getting off the ground. 
Neil Gross is a professor of sociology at Colby College. 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram . 

Photograph 
A fiery gathering at the Place de la République in Paris this month as part of a national protest spurred by a government plan to raise gasoline taxes to combat global warming. 
(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHANE MAHE/REUTERS) 
Copyright New York Times Company Dec 16, 2018 

Subject  Environmentalism; Taxes; Environmentalists; Public opinion surveys; Global warming; Environmental protection; Environmental policy; Climate change; Tax increases; Socioeconomic factors; Fuel taxes; Educational attainment; Wealth; Demonstrations & protests; Social classes  
Location  France  
People  Macron, Emmanuel  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/14/opinion/sunday/yellow-vest-protests-climate.html  
Title  The Class Divide on Saving the Planet: [Op-Ed]  
Author  Gross, Neil  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  SR.2  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Dec 16, 2018  
column  Gray Matter  
Section  SR  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  

Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  2156745358  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2156745358?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Dec 16, 2018  
Last updated  2018-12-17  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 11 of 236 


'Last Best Chance to Stop Runaway Climate Change': [Foreign Desk] 
Sengupta, Somini.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]15 Dec 2018: A.8. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=%27Last+Best+Chance+to+Stop+Runaway+Climate+Change%27%3A+%5BFor 12-15&volume=&issue=&spage=A.8&au=Sengupta%2C+Somini&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd: , our email newsletter. 
World leaders struck an agreement three years ago in Paris to avert the worst effects of climate change, accepting not only that greenhouse gases were dangerously heating the planet, but also that every single country needed to do its part to curtail emissions. 
Now, emissions are rising in the United States and China, the world's two largest economies. Other countries are backsliding on their commitments. The world as a whole is not meeting its targets under the Paris pact. As diplomats meet in Katowice, Poland, this week to bring the deal into effect, the world's 7.6 billion people face mounting risks from more severe and more frequent floods, droughts and wildfires. 
The Paris Agreement, it seems, is only as good as the willingness of national leaders to keep their word. 
"We have the ways," António Guterres, the United Nations secretary general, said this week in Katowice. "What we need is the political will to move forward." 
Champions of the accord point out that the diplomatic process is alive and well and that all of the world's 195 countries are still in the deal, including the United States, which can exit only at the end of 2020. The science is sharper than before on the dangers of unchecked emissions, and a great many countries, including the poorest, are pushing for more ambitious targets. 
The Katowice talks are facing a Saturday deadline, and Mr. Guterres has visited twice to push diplomats to bridge their still-large differences on the details of a "rule book" that will allow countries to implement the Paris Agreement. 
"To waste this opportunity in Katowice would compromise our last best chance to stop runaway climate change," Mr. Guterres said. "It would not only be immoral, it would be suicidal." 
How did we get here? 
Things started to change with the election of Donald J. Trump. Less than six months after taking office, he announced the United States would withdraw from the Paris Agreement. At home, his administration has pushed to overturn pollution regulations, making it far less likely that the United States will meet its Paris pledge to cut emissions sharply by 2025. 
In August, an effort in Australia to transition away from coal, the dirtiest fossil fuel, resulted in the ouster of the prime minister. The man who succeeded him, Scott Morrison, endeared himself to the industry by bringing a lump of coal into Parliament. 
In November, Brazilians elected Jair Bolsonaro, who had pledged to promote agribusiness interests in the Amazon forest, the world's largest carbon sink. 
In Poland, the host country of the latest United Nations talks, the right-wing president, Andrzej Duda, opened the negotiations by saying flatly that his country did not intend to abandon coal. 
Other leaders face their own domestic difficulties. Emissions in China have grown for the past two years, signaling the difficulties of shifting the country away from its coal-dependent industrial economy. Germany is having a hard time moving away from lignite because of political opposition in the country's coal-rich east. The French president, Emmanuel Macron, faces unrest at home over a layer cake of taxes that working-class people say burdens them unfairly. 
All the while, the science has become clearer. A United States government report issued last month concluded that if significant steps were not taken to rein in global warming, it would put a huge dent in the American economy by century's end. 
And an exhaustive report issued weeks before by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, compiled by hundreds of scientists from around the world convened by the United Nations, said emissions would have to decline significantly by 2030 for the world to avoid a world of worsening food shortages and wildfires. 
"The I.P.C.C. has sounded many alarms, and the world just keeps smashing the alarm and keeps on sleeping," said Hans Joachim Schellnhuber, founder of the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, on the sidelines of the talks in Katowice. 
The world as a whole is not on track to meet the broad goal it set for itself in Paris: to keep the increase in global temperatures "well below" 2 degrees Celsius, or 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit, over preindustrial levels. Under the agreement, each country put forward a voluntary pledge to curtail its own emissions. 
So far, those voluntary pledges have not been sufficient. New data made public in Poland this week by the group Climate Action Tracker estimated that current climate policies put the world on pace for somewhere around 3.3 degrees Celsius. 
"If we are serious about the Paris Agreement, we need to see different numbers," Petteri Taalas, head of the World Meteorological Organization, told the delegates in Katowice this week. He noted that global emissions had risen in 2018. 
The negotiations in Katowice are aimed at setting out the rules by which countries will regularly update their emissions-reductions pledges and assess one another's progress. But even those technical discussions about the rule book have been bogged down by intense political differences. 
"We are in a planetary emergency and the longer we waste time in the negotiating room not acknowledging this fact, we do so at the cost of our people and our communities," a statement from a bloc of poor countries, led by Ethiopia, urged on Thursday. 
For its part, even though the United States has said it intends to withdraw from the Paris deal, the country has still sent a delegation to the negotiations. "These global energy and environmental policies will have an impact on U.S. interests, and we want to make sure we protect those so they're not hamstringing economic growth, innovation, entrepreneurship in the U.S.," said Wells Griffith, Mr. Trump's international energy and climate adviser. 
The Trump administration pointedly refused to embrace the United Nations' scientific report, siding with three other major oil- and gas-producing countries -- Russia, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait -- to block a resolution in Poland to "welcome" the report. 
To be sure, the Paris pact, and the growing scientific clarity about global warming, has spurred countries and businesses to reorient themselves. From shipping to fast food to insurance, companies are setting their own targets to reduce carbon footprints. Solar and wind energy is expanding rapidly. Within the United States, a number of cities and states have dissented from the Trump administration's planned exit and created their own local plans to green their economies. 
Christiana Figueres, the former United Nations climate chief who led the Paris negotiations to their conclusion in December 2015, argued that the pact had set into motion a fundamental transformation of the global economy away from fossil fuels. It would be naïve, she said, to not expect pushback. 
"Not to fall into Pollyanna land here, one has to recognize that of course there are huge, huge very powerful, very well endowed vested forces that are very threatened by this," Ms. Figueres said in a podcast streamed on her website. "Let's not get paralyzed by that," she said. 
Brad Plumer contributed reporting from Katowice, Poland. 
For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. 
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 

Photograph 
A protest on global warming in Katowice, Poland, where diplomats are working on rules to put the Paris Agreement into effect. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALIK KEPLICZ/ASSOCIATED PRESS) Copyright New York Times Company Dec 15, 2018 
Subject 	Emissions; 

Economic growth; 

Diplomatic & consular services; 

Global warming; 
Paris Agreement; 

Environmental policy; 
Climate change; 
Coal 


Location 	Russia; United States--US; Saudi Arabia; Ethiopia; Germany; Kuwait; Australia; China; Poland 
People 	Duda, Andrzej; Macron, Emmanuel; Bolsonaro, Jair; Figueres, Christiana 
Company / organization 	Name: United Nations--UN 

NAICS: 928120; 

Name: Twitter Inc NAICS: 519130; 
Name: Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change NAICS: 541712, 928120; 
Name: World Meteorological Organization NAICS: 924120 
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/14/climate/paris-climate-future-poland.html  
Title  'Last Best Chance to Stop Runaway Climate Change': [Foreign Desk]  
Author  Sengupta, Somini  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  

Pages  A.8  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Dec 15, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2156338421  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2156338421?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Dec 15, 2018  
Last updated  2018-12-15  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 12 of 236 


Forget Trump. Act on the Climate.: [Op-Ed] 
Kerry, John.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]14 Dec 2018: A.31. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Forget+Trump.+Act+on+the+Climate.%3A+%5BOp­Ed%5D&title=New+York+Times&issn=03624331&date=2018-12­14&volume=&issue=&spage=A.31&au=Kerry%2C+John&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
This week is the third anniversary of the Paris climate agreement. The Trump administration marked it by working with Russia and Gulf oil nations to sideline science and undermine the accord at climate talks underway in Katowice, Poland. 
While I was in New Delhi this week, where I met with solar energy advocates, a comment made thousands of miles away by the journalist Bob Woodward almost jumped off my iPad: The president, he said, "makes decisions often without a factual basis." This isn't a mere personality quirk of the leader of the free world. It is profoundly dangerous for the entire planet. 
Scientists tell us we must act now to avoid the ravages of climate change. The collision of facts and alternative facts has hurt America's efforts to confront this existential crisis. Ever since Mr. Trump announced that he would pull America out of the Paris accord, those of us in the fight have worked to demonstrate that the American people are still in. 
But the test is not whether the nation's cities and states can make up for Mr. Trump's rejection of reality. They can. The test is whether the nations of the world will pull out of the mutual suicide pact that we've all passively joined through an inadequate response to this crisis. 
Talk to leaders who are gathered in Poland. They acknowledge that we aren't close to getting the job done in reducing the greenhouse gas emissions that warm the planet. People are dying today because of climate change, and many more will die and trillions of dollars of damage to property will occur unless America gets back in the fight. 
The evidence is hard to miss. Fifteen of the biggest fires in California history have occurred in the past 18 years. We roll our eyes when the president suggests "raking" the forest is the answer. But clever internet memes don't help when the stakes are this high. 
Hurricanes Maria, Harvey and Irma cost the United States some $265 billion in damages. Historic droughts are matched by historic floods. Heat waves stole 153 billion hours of labor globally last year. Infectious diseases are moving into new areas and higher altitudes. Crop yields are down in more than two dozen countries, and by 2050 the Midwestern United States could see agricultural productivity drop to its lowest level in decades. But this is a mere preview of what's to come. 
The latest report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change warned that the changes required to hold global warming to 2.7 degrees Fahrenheit (1.5 degrees Celsius), as called for in the Paris agreement, would require changes on a scale with "no documented historic precedent." 
Every day we lose ground debating alternative facts. It's not a "he said/she said" -- there's truth, and then there's Mr. Trump. Even the recent congressionally mandated climate assessment warns that "with continued growth in emissions at historic rates, annual losses in some economic sectors are projected to reach hundreds of billions of dollars by the end of the century -- more than the current gross domestic product of many U.S. states." 
Emissions are forecast to go up by 2.7 percent worldwide this year. Instead of reining them in, the Trump administration would unleash more by replacing the Clean Power Plan with a rule that could allow power plants to unload 12 times more carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. Instead of controlling fuel emissions, the administration is rolling back fuel economy standards that the auto industry had embraced. Instead of keeping a lid on methane, it's making it more likely that this potent greenhouse gas will leak into the atmosphere. 
Future generations will measure us by whether we acted on facts, not just debated or denied them. The verdict will hang on whether we put in place policies that will drive the development and deployment of clean technologies, re-energize our economies, and tackle global climate change. Every day that goes by that we're paralyzed by the Luddite in the White House is a day in the future that our grandchildren will suffer. That's not hyperbole -- that's science. 
Instead of tacitly accepting that inaction is preordained for the remaining two years of the Trump presidency, Congress should send Mr. Trump legislation addressing this crisis. It will force him to make choices the American people will long remember: Will he say no to deploying solar technology that would turn the American West into the Saudi Arabia of solar? No to turning the Midwest into the Middle East of wind power? No to a manufacturing revolution that could put West Virginia back to work in ways that his beloved coal never will? 
Make him choose -- and let's find out. 
Senator Chuck Schumer, the Democrat from New York and Senate minority leader, is right to demand that infrastructure legislation actually hasten the transition to a clean energy economy and increase climate resilience. In soon-to-be Speaker Nancy Pelosi, he has a partner who wrangled the votes in the House in 2009 to pass a landmark cap­and-trade program to limit emissions of heat-trapping gases (though it never made it out of the Senate), and can join him in seeking investments in low carbon infrastructure. And if Mr. Trump says no, make climate change the galvanizing issue for 2020 for millennials who will vote as if their lives depend on it -- because they do. 
If we fail, future generations will judge us all as failures, not just this president. They will have no time for excuses. Facts matter. Act on them. 
John Kerry was a Democratic senator from Massachusetts before becoming secretary of state in the Obama administration. 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram . 

Illustration 
DRAWING (DRAWING BY SALLY DENG) 
Copyright New York Times Company Dec 14, 2018 

Subject  Emissions; Greenhouse effect; Industrial plant emissions; Climate change; Greenhouse gases; Alternative energy sources; Gross Domestic Product--GDP; Global warming; Forest & brush fires; Environmental protection; Environmental policy  
Location  United States--US  
People  Woodward, Bob; Kerry, John F; Schumer, Charles E; Pelosi, Nancy; Trump, Donald J  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Congress 921120;  
Name: NAICS:  Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 541712, 928120  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/13/opinion/kerry-climate-change-trump.html  
Title  Forget Trump. Act on the Climate.: [Op-Ed]  
Author  Kerry, John  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.31  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Dec 14, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  2155584778  

Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2155584778?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Dec 14, 2018  
Last updated  2018-12-14  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 13 of 236 


Here to Help; One Thing You Can Do To Counteract Climate Change: [Science Desk] 
Friedman, Lisa; Fountain, Henry; Garcia, Eduardo.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]14 Dec 2018: A.3. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Here+to+Help%3B+One+Thing+You+Can+Do+To+Counteract+Climate+Change 12­14&volume=&issue=&spage=A.3&au=Friedman%2C+Lisa%3BFountain%2C+Henry%3BGarcia%2C+Eduardo&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info: 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Welcome to the Climate Fwd: newsletter. The New York Times climate team emails readers once a week with stories and insights about climate change. Sign up here to get it in your inbox. 
By Lisa Friedman 
It's a busy week on the climate front for the Trump administration. In Washington, the Environmental Protection Agency and Interior Department are teeing up more rollbacks of Obama-era regulations. In Katowice, Poland, where diplomats are gathered for another round of United Nations climate change negotiations, White House officials are promoting fossil fuels. 
My colleague Brad Plumer, who is in Katowice, attended the Trump team's event, which drew jeers from environmental activists but attracted some powerful potential allies among major coal and oil producers like Saudi Arabia and Australia. Diplomats are starting to ask: Is the United States now actively trying to undermine the Paris Agreement, from which it intends to withdraw? 
The realignment is happening against a backdrop of protests in France that President Trump has blamed on the Paris Agreement. Alissa J. Rubin and Somini Sengupta unpacked how the design of France's carbon tax, and not the drive to reduce planet-warming emissions itself, led to political backlash. You should also check out Somini's other piece on how the growing rift between the United States and China could undermine global efforts to curb climate change. 
But any way you slice the emissions picture, no major country is really on track to meet its Paris Agreement goals, Brad and Nadja Popovich reported. 
In the United States, the Trump administration is making it easier to build new coal plants despite the growing urgency of the climate crisis. As my colleague Coral Davenport reported, it's also chipping away at clean water protections that were put in place during the administration of the first President George Bush. And the administration also rolled back protections for the sage grouse, an imperiled bird that makes its home on millions of acres of oil-rich land in the West, in a bid to spur new oil exploration. 
There's some hope for a different threatened species, however. Kendra Pierre-Louis reports on new research that finds coral reefs may be more resilient to global warming and bleaching than we think. Check out her piece to learn more, and have a great week! 
A wonderful time of year for scientists 
By Henry Fountain 
Each December, the guardians of writing style here at The New York Times caution reporters to avoid holiday clichés like "'tis the season" and "deck the halls." But I'm going to violate that rule, because what I'm writing about has nothing to do with the holidays. So: 
'Tis the season for the annual meeting of the American Geophysical Union, a can't-miss event for researchers and students in earth sciences, and for reporters who write about climate change and the environment. 
The A.G.U. Fall Meeting, as the event is known, is one of the largest gatherings of scientists in the United States. It's held during the second week of December, usually in San Francisco, but this year in Washington at the enormous Walter E. Washington Convention Center less than a mile from the White House. About 28,000 people are attending over six days. 
There's a huge grab bag of activities: thousands of short talks and poster sessions by researchers in dozens of fields, all concerned with the study of our planet (and of other planets, too, when the research has bearing on our own); plenary speeches by giants of science; news conferences (including one about the Arctic Report Card, which John Schwartz and I wrote about on Tuesday); and much more. 
For a climate reporter, A.G.U. is like a giant candy store filled with row after row of bonbons, each with a long and largely indecipherable name but enticing nonetheless. Many of the talks and posters are highly technical, laced with the jargon of science -- they are intended for fellow scientists, after all -- and difficult for the layperson to follow. Here's the title of a typical one: "Prediction Skill Provided by the MJO to Midlatitude Circulations on S2S Timescales." (It's related to atmospheric patterns over the North Atlantic that can affect weather.) 
But the talks represent current, often cutting-edge research, and walking around the enormous poster hall and talking to scientists can lead to story ideas. 
Here are a few of the interesting things that Kendra Pierre-Louis, Nadja Popovich and I have learned here so far: 
¦
 ICESat-2, NASA's new satellite that precisely measures the height of sea and land ice, is working well. It will help scientists monitor the melting of glaciers, ice sheets and sea ice and provide better estimates of the effect on sea-level rise as the world continues to warm. (The ubiquitous Mr. Schwartz wrote about ICESat-2 before its launch in September.) 

¦
 Speaking of satellites, they can see penguin colonies from space. Scientists provided updates on space-based measurements of a huge colony of Adélie penguins (approximately 1.5 million birds!) on the Danger Islands near the tip of the Antarctic Peninsula. The data will help scientists better understand how the penguins are affected by changes in sea ice conditions. (Satellite images can't distinguish individual penguins. Rather, they identify areas of guano-stained rocks and use the size of those areas to estimate population.) 

¦
 Scientists have developed a more detailed assessment of how snowpack has declined across the United States since 1982, mapping the changes across the entire Lower 48. The data show that some areas of the country -- especially parts of the Rockies, where communities and agriculture are heavily dependent on snowmelt for water supplies -­have experienced a 41 percent decline in the mass of snow over the period. 

¦
 An A.G.U. program called Thriving Earth Exchange connects researchers with communities to solve local environmental problems. Kendra and Nadja took a bus ride out to Brandywine, Md., to see it in action. There are three power plants there -- one coal and two natural gas -- and some residents are questioning plans to construct two more. Researchers from the University of Maryland, College Park, are helping the community analyze local air pollution. 


One thing you can do: Reduce food waste By Eduardo Garcia I'm looking forward to celebrating the holiday season by eating some delicious meals with my loved ones. We will probably get cheery around a dining table crammed with 
roasts, stews, casseroles and, I hope, lots of pie. These holiday meals will bring us a lot of joy, but they could come with environmental costs. 
That's because a lot of that food will end up in a landfill, where it will emit methane, a gas that is over 20 times more potent than carbon dioxide in trapping heat in the 
atmosphere. 
The food wasted by a single household may not seem like much, but it all adds up. Approximately 40 percent of food is thrown away in America, and although producers, 

retailers and restaurants are partly to blame, households are by far the main culprits. 

This is a big problem. If food waste could be represented as a country, it would be the third-largest greenhouse gas emitter, behind China and the United States, according to 
the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization. 
But planet-warming pollution is only a small part of the story. When we waste food, we are also throwing away the resources that went into producing, processing, packaging 

and transporting that food. 

"Foods that are more resource intensive to produce, like meat and dairy, are the ones that affect the environment the most when we throw them out," said Dana Gunders, 
author of the "Waste-Free Kitchen Handbook." 
For instance, throwing away a hamburger is the equivalent of taking a 90-minute shower in terms of the amount of water that it took to produce that beef patty. 
But worry not, we have some great tips to help you reduce food waste. 
First, plan ahead. If you're hosting, buy only the food that you need. The best way to do this is to write a shopping list and stick to it. Remember that when it comes to reducing 

food waste, compulsive shopping is your main enemy. 

You can try using the "Guest-imator," an online tool developed by the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental group. It can help you calculate how much food you 
need to buy for your dinner party. 
If there are leftovers that may go bad soon, ask your guests to take some home, use them to make a meal the following day, or freeze them. 
"Freezing is like pressing the pause button on your food," Ms. Gunders said. "A lot of people think of the freezer as a long-term solution, but you can also take food out after a 

few days." 
You could also choose to donate the extra food to food banks, shelters and soup kitchens. 
Ultimately, if you wind up wasting food, at least throw it in the compost bin. Compost can help plants grow, and in some places it can even be used to create energy. 

We'd love your feedback on this newsletter. Please email thoughts and suggestions to climateteam@nytimes.com . 
If you like what we're doing, please spread the word and send this to your friends. You can sign up here to get our newsletter delivered to your inbox each week. 
And be sure to check out our full assortment of free newsletters from The Times. 
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 

Illustration 
DRAWING (DRAWING BY TYLER VARSELL) Copyright New York Times Company Dec 14, 2018 
Subject 	Research; Scientists; Endangered & extinct species; Newsletters; Researchers; 
Environmental impact;  
Coal-fired power plants;  
Paris Agreement;  
Food waste;  
Industrial plant emissions;  
Climate change;  
Natural gas  
Location  United States--US; New York; China; France  
Company / organization  Name: New York Times Co  
NAICS: 511110, 511120, 515112, 515120;  
Name: United Nations--UN  
NAICS: 928120  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/12/climate/climate-fwd-agu-food-waste.html  
Title  Here to Help; One Thing You Can Do To Counteract Climate Change: [Science Desk]  
Author  Friedman, Lisa; Fountain, Henry; Garcia, Eduardo  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.3  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Dec 14, 2018  
column  Climate Fwd:  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2155584693  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2155584693?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Dec 14, 2018  
Last updated  2018-12-14  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 14 of 236 



More Floods, More Droughts: Climate Change Delivers Both: [Foreign Desk] 
Schwartz, John.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]13 Dec 2018: A.8. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=More+Floods%2C+More+Droughts%3A+Climate+Change+Delivers+Both%3A+% 12-13&volume=&issue=&spage=A.8&au=Schwartz%2C+John&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
CORRECTION APPENDED. Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd: , our email newsletter. 
More records for both wet and dry weather are being set around the globe, often with disastrous consequences for the people facing such extremes, according to a study published Wednesday that offered new evidence of climate change's impacts in the here and now. 
Extreme rainfall, and the extreme lack of it, affects untold numbers of people, taxing economies, disrupting food production, creating unrest and prompting migrations. So, factors that push regions of the world to exceptional levels of flooding and drought can shape the fate of nations. 
"Climate change will likely continue to alter the occurrence of record-breaking wet and dry months in the future," the study predicts, "with severe consequences for agricultural production and food security." 
Heavy rainfall events, with severe flooding, are occurring more often in the central and Eastern United States, Northern Europe and northern Asia. The number of months with record-high rainfall increased in the central and Eastern United States by more than 25 percent between 1980 and 2013. 
Intense rainfall from hurricanes and other tropical storms can be ruinously costly. Munich Re, the reinsurance giant, said that major tropical storms caused $51 billion in losses worldwide this year, well over the long-term annual average of $34 billion. In 2017, Hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria together caused hundreds of millions of dollars of damage in the United States. 
Parts of Africa, on the other hand, are experiencing more months with a pronounced lack of rain. The number of record-setting dry months increased by nearly 50 percent in sub-Saharan Africa during the study period. 
Jascha Lehmann, a scientist at the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research in Germany and the lead author of the study, compared extreme weather events to a high roll of a die. "On average, one out of six times you get a six," he said. "But by injecting huge amounts of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere, humankind has loaded the dice. In many regions, we throw sixes much more often with severe impacts for society and the environment." 
While much climate research relies on complex models to make projections, this new work interprets already-observed monthly rainfall data from 50,000 weather stations around the world. "That's not to say models are not good," Dr. Lehmann said in an interview, but his observational data "fits what we expect from physics and what models also show." 
Climate models have long predicted that because of the greenhouse gases human activity has pumped into the atmosphere and the warming that results, the world's wet regions are likely to grow wetter. Warmer air causes greater evaporation from oceans and waterways, and warmer air can hold more moisture. 
There is also evidence that changes in atmospheric circulation in summer have caused some weather systems to stall. The combination of such factors can lead to torrential rains like those that inundated the Houston area during Hurricane Harvey last year, and Baton Rouge during the floods of 2016. 
Regions that tend to be dry, by contrast, are expected to grow even more parched as higher temperatures dry the soil and air. "Climate change drives both wet and dry extremes," Dr. Lehmann said. 
To conduct the study, which appears in the journal Geophysical Research Letters, Dr. Lehmann's team searched the databases of an authoritative repository of rainfall measurement, the Global Precipitation Climatology Center in Germany. Given natural weather variability, some extreme weather events were to be expected, so the researchers tried to determine how many events would have occurred without the influence of global warming. 
The researchers determined that one-third of the record-dry months recorded in the African regions under study would not have occurred without the influence of climate change. 
The findings dovetail with another report on Monday that detailed the connections between climate change and recent extreme weather events. That report, which was published in the Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society, presented 17 peer-reviewed analyses of weather events around the world. The researchers evaluated heat waves, droughts, flooding and other phenomena and determined, for example, that marine heat waves off the coast of Australia in 2017 and 2018 would have been "virtually impossible" without climate change. 
The report said that climate change made last year's drought in the northern Great Plains of the United States and a pounding six-day monsoon in northeast Bangladesh far more likely. Out of 146 research findings in the series of papers, only about 30 percent did not find a substantial link between an extreme event and climate change. 
Stephanie C. Herring, a climate scientist with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and an author of the report, said that, over the years, the attribution work has helped to establish the present-day effects of climate change. 
"We're taking out that factor of 'climate change might impact us someday,' " she said. "Climate change is impacting us now." 
The message of the studies is "painfully clear," said Heidi Cullen, a climate scientist with the Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute. "Burning fossil fuels is making our weather worse right now," with greater likelihood of deadly heat waves, wildfires, droughts and floods, she said. "And the more we burn coal, oil and gas, the worse it will get." 
For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. 
Correction: December 17, 2018, Monday 
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misstated the findings of a report by Munich Re, a reinsurance company, on damages caused by tropical storms in 2018. The company reported that tropical cyclones had caused $51 billion in losses worldwide, not that the hurricane season caused $51 billion in losses in the United States. Additionally, the long-term annual average of $34 billion in losses, as calculated by the company, is for tropical cyclones worldwide, not hurricanes in the United States. 

Photograph 
Flooding in September in Elizabeth City, N.C., above, and drought in October at a harbor in the parched Lake Chilwa in Malawi, left. Research published this week links the greater frequency of both extremes in recent decades to climate change. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HILARY SWIFT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; AMOS GUMULIRA/AGENCE FRANCE­PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) Copyright New York Times Company Dec 13, 2018 
Subject 	Research; 
Agricultural production; 

Greenhouse gases; 
Studies; 
Floods; 

Researchers; 

Rainfall measurement; 
Greenhouse effect; 
Climate change 


Location 	Bangladesh; Malawi; United States--US; Germany; Africa; Australia; Baton Rouge Louisiana; 

Great Plains; Northern Europe; Asia; Monterey Bay 


People 	Cullen, Heidi 
Company / organization 	Name: Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute 

NAICS: 541711; 

Name: Twitter Inc NAICS: 519130; 
Name: American Meteorological Society NAICS: 813920; 
Name: National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration--NOAA NAICS: 924120 
URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/12/climate/climate-change-floods-droughts.html 
Title 	More Floods, More Droughts: Climate Change Delivers Both: [Foreign Desk] 
Author 	Schwartz, John 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.8 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Dec 13, 2018 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2154947672  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2154947672?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Dec 13, 2018  
Last updated  2018-12-19  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 15 of 236 


Trump Has Allies on Fossil Fuels: [Foreign Desk] 
Plumer, Brad; Friedman, Lisa.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]11 Dec 2018: A.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Trump+Has+Allies+on+Fossil+Fuels%3A+%5BForeign+Desk%5D&title=New+Yo 12-11&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Plumer%2C+Brad%3BFriedman%2C+Lisa&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd: , our email newsletter. 
KATOWICE, Poland -- Trump administration officials at high-stakes climate talks here offered an unapologetic defense of fossil fuels on Monday, arguing that a rapid retreat from coal, oil and gas was unrealistic. 
While that stance brought scorn from environmentalists and countries that favor stronger action to fight global warming, there are signs that the administration is finding a receptive audience among other major fossil-fuel producers, including Russia, Saudi Arabia and Australia. 
President Trump's international energy and climate adviser, Wells Griffith, hosted a panel discussion on fossil fuels at the United Nations conference, arguing that the developing world would be heavily reliant on coal, oil and gas for some time and that it was in the world's interest to find more efficient ways of developing and burning those fuels. 
Midway through, the panel was interrupted by scores of noisy protesters, who chanted, "Shame on you!" and "Keep it in the ground!" 
"The United States has an abundance of natural resources and is not going to keep them in the ground," Mr. Griffith said. "We strongly believe that no country should have to sacrifice their economic prosperity or energy security in pursuit of environmental sustainability." 
With its stance, the United States was emerging as the leader of an informal movement to promote coal and other fossil fuels -- despite reports, including by the government's own scientists, that the planet is growing dangerously warmer because of greenhouse gasses. 
Mr. Griffith's position was shared by Patrick Suckling, Australia's ambassador for the environment, who was also on the panel and who agreed that "fossil fuels are projected to be a major source of energy for a significant time to come." He spoke in favor of technology for capturing carbon dioxide from coal plants and burying it, and noted that such technology could be exported. 
The public endorsement of fossil fuels came two days after the Trump administration helped to block the United Nations climate conference from embracing the findings of a major scientific report on global warming. It amounted to what might be the most dramatic show of disdain for the Paris Agreement on reducing greenhouse emissions -- at a gathering meant to establish a set of rules for implementing the deal -- since President Trump announced that the country would abandon the pact. 
The United States -- along with Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Russia -- refused to allow a collective statement that would "welcome" the report, issued by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which detailed a variety of strategies for cutting global fossil-fuel emissions roughly in half by 2030 in order to avoid many dangerous climate impacts. 
Instead, the countries, all major oil and gas exporters, demanded the conference only "note" the existence of the report and thank the scientists for their work. 
While the difference between welcoming and noting a report might seem slight, in the world of diplomacy it essentially means the difference between endorsement and neutrality. The 2015 Paris Agreement almost fell apart in a feud over the words "should" versus "shall." 
At the same time, American career diplomats are working, behind the scenes, to help negotiate with other countries over details for a "rule book" that will allow the Paris agreement to become operational. 
In seeking to water down the language adopting the United Nations report, delegates said, the Trump administration sent a powerful message that it not only rejects the Paris Agreement but also the scientific underpinning of the international climate change negotiations itself. 
"I don't see any reason why any government or country can deny what the science says," said Amjad Abdulla of the Maldives, the chief negotiator for a bloc of island nations known as the Alliance of Small Island States. "It sends a very bad signal." 
The United Nations report forecast what would happen if average global temperatures rose by 1.5 degrees Celsius, or 2.7 degrees Fahrenheit, over preindustrial levels and warned "there is no documented historic precedent" for the scale of changes needed to avoid the worst damage. 
Ever since President Trump announced last year he would pull the United States out of the Paris agreement, observers have been watching for signs that America's disavowal of the pact could encourage other countries to slacken their own efforts at cutting emissions. 
A recent report by the Institute of International and European Affairs found that last year, American banks invested more heavily in coal and oil from tar sands while renewable energy investments have sagged globally, a reversal of the trends seen shortly after the Paris agreement was signed in 2015. 
"It's hard to draw a direct cause and effect, but we know that investors do pay close attention to political signals," said Joseph Curtin, a senior fellow at the institute and the author of its report. "The Paris Agreement sent a strong signal that carbon-intensive investments were risky. Now we're seeing signals the other way." 
The United States' alignment with Kuwait, Russia and particularly Saudi Arabia also injected a new dynamic that several diplomats said they found worrisome. Saudi Arabia in particular has long been accused of outright obstruction in the climate talks. Several diplomats said seeing America standing with Saudi Arabia in rejecting science was shocking. 
"The U.S. along with Saudi Arabia are playing a clear and calculated spoiling role in the climate change negotiations," said Ian Fry, the lead negotiator for Tuvalu. He called the countries' official indifference to the United Nations report "truly disturbing." 
Others noted that the United States and Saudi Arabia remained at odds on a number of issues, like whether developed and developing countries should be held to the same transparency standards for meeting emissions-cutting goals, and dismissed the idea that the countries were working together in a coordinated way to derail the negotiations. 
George David Banks, a former White House energy adviser in the Trump administration, said the shared position of the United States and Saudi Arabia on the United Nations report merely reflected their mutual energy interests and concerns about a growing international movement around divestment and the rejection of fossil fuels in response to climate change. 
"The United States and Saudi Arabia both have abundant resources of fossil energy," Mr. Banks said. "When you have a Republican administration that supports energy dominance as a foreign policy goal, it makes sense for the United States to take the position that happens to align with the Saudis." 
The disagreement over the United Nations report may have helped to fundamentally alter the perception of what role the United States intends to play in the negotiations from now on under the Trump administration. 
Climate diplomats have generally operated over the past year with the understanding that, while President Trump has vowed to withdraw the United States from the Paris Agreement and takes every opportunity to publicly denounce the accord, the administration was not actively seeking to undermine it or persuade other countries to also reject it. 
Yet at the Group of 20 talks in Buenos Aires this year, where the United States was the lone holdout on a statement reiterating nations' support for the Paris Agreement, a senior White House official made a point of noting that Turkey, Saudi Arabia and Russia also expressed doubts about staying in the accord. "You're seeing a little bit of the coalition fraying," the administration official said in a background briefing. 
In the meantime, State Department negotiators have continued to press countries like China and India on issues like adopting stricter transparency measures -- a delicate task, some analysts say, given the Trump administration's public stance on the agreement. 
"I think the U.S. doesn't have a huge amount of direct influence right now because of President Trump's position," said Nigel Purvis, a top environmental negotiator under Presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush and the chief executive of Climate Advisers, a consulting firm. 
"But the U.S. negotiators are highly respected and experienced, and people understand that the perspectives they have on requiring more transparency from China, India and others are the same perspectives that any future administration would likely have," he added. "So countries are still taking them seriously." 
For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. 
Copyright New York Times Company Dec 11, 2018 
Subject 	Emissions; 

Diplomatic & consular services; 

Presidents; 
Energy; 
Greenhouse effect; 
Climate change; 
Fossil fuels; 
Paris Agreement; 

Coal; 
Sustainability; 
Environmental protection; 
International relations-US; 

Alliances 


Location 	Turkey; Russia; Tuvalu; Kuwait; Australia; Poland; Maldives; United States--US; Saudi Arabia; 

India; China 


People 	Trump, Donald J; Banks, George David 
Company / organization 	Name: United Nations--UN 

NAICS: 928120; 

Name: Group of Twenty NAICS: 926110; 
Name: Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change NAICS: 541712, 928120 
URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/10/climate/katowice-climate-talks-cop24.html 
Title 	Trump Has Allies on Fossil Fuels: [Foreign Desk] 
Author  Plumer, Brad; Friedman, Lisa  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.1  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Dec 11, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2153934147  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2153934147?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Dec 11, 2018  
Last updated  2018-12-11  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 16 of 236 


Too Strict, Too Lax: Trudeau's Carbon Tax Push Has Critics on All Sides: [Foreign Desk] 
Austen, Ian.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]10 Dec 2018: A.11. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Too+Strict%2C+Too+Lax%3A+Trudeau%27s+Carbon+Tax+Push+Has+Critics+o 12-10&volume=&issue=&spage=A.11&au=Austen%2C+Ian&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
ESTEVAN, Saskatchewan -- Crews are hard at work these days on the oil rigs that rise above the horizon in southeastern Saskatchewan. At least for now. 
Dylan Gilliss, the owner of a company that provides workers and equipment for drilling, sees plans by Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada to impose carbon taxes on the province as a threat to his business -- and to those jobs -- as well as a cash grab for the government. "It's going to come on the backs of the men, that's who's going to take the brunt of it," Mr. Gilliss said while driving his white pickup truck along a gravel road lined with pump 
jacks. 
"We'll do layoffs or we'll do wage cuts," he said. "If none of that works, we'll close the doors. That's the sad and simple truth." 
When Mr. Trudeau came to office three years ago, combating climate change was near the top of his agenda and putting a price on carbon pollution was his government's 

weapon of choice. 

But Mr. Trudeau's climate program has increasingly been targeted by critics at both ends of the political spectrum, and conservative governments in several provinces have 
refused to participate, forcing federal intervention. His efforts are likely to become a defining issue when Canadians vote on his government's re-election next fall. 
While environmentalists give credit to Mr. Trudeau, they are also swift to note that Canada, like many other countries, will have to report at a meeting of the world's 

environment ministers in Poland this month that it is not on target to meet its emissions-reduction commitments under the Paris Agreement. 

Mainstream conservative politicians in Canada do not deny that climate change is a significant problem, or even a crisis. But they have pushed back hard against carbon pricing 
with, among other things, legal challenges to the federal government's right to impose a carbon plan in their provinces. 
Unlike many economists, they argue that carbon pricing will not reduce emissions, and instead will pinch household budgets and enrich governments. 
Four provinces now led by conservative governments have dented the national consensus Mr. Trudeau had once formed on carbon pricing. Andrew Scheer, the federal 

Conservative leader, rarely misses a chance to condemn carbon pricing as an unfair tax burden and job killer. 

When General Motors announced the closing of two assembly lines in Oshawa, Ontario, last month, Mr. Scheer quickly blamed carbon taxes even though the company said 
public policies played no role. 
"It is an uphill battle politically to adopt a new and high-profile tax," said Kathryn Harrison, a professor of political science at the University of British Columbia who studies 

environmental policies and believes carbon taxes are effective. 

"The thing about climate change is that it's much harder to fix than other issues," she added. "That allows critics to point to any one, single policy and say: That's not going to 
fix the problem. Why don't we give up?" 
[Want more Canadian coverage in your inbox? Sign up for our weekly Canada Letter newsletter.] 
Mr. Trudeau's government is taking several approaches to cutting carbon emissions. 
One is to match the stricter fuel efficiency requirements introduced in the United States by the Obama administration, which are now threatened by President Trump. 
Canada also joined the Obama administration in efforts to limit leaks of methane, a particularly potent greenhouse gas, from oil wells, refineries and pipelines. 
But from the beginning, the key to Mr. Trudeau's program was the introduction of either carbon taxes or cap-and-trade systems, like the one in California, in all of Canada's 

provinces. 

Catherine McKenna, Mr. Trudeau's environment minister, who has had climate change added to her title for symbolic emphasis, said in an interview that the priority will not 
change despite conservative opposition. 
"It's just a basic principle," Ms. McKenna said. "If you make it free to pollute, there will be more pollution. If you put a price on pollution, it will create the incentive for folks to 

save money by reducing pollution, choosing cleaner solutions and the innovations we need." 

Rather than impose a federal tax, Mr. Trudeau initially let each of the 10 provinces set up their own systems. They were free to impose a straight tax or allow the trading of carbon credits -- but they had create a cost for carbon emissions. What they did with the revenue would be their business. 
Either system had to start with an initial price of 20 Canadian dollars a metric ton of carbon, and then raise that number by 10 dollars a year until 2022. 
In British Columbia, Canada had both an example and a head start. 
Just over 10 years ago, a right-of-center government there introduced a carbon tax that William D. Nordhaus, the Yale economist who shared the Nobel in economic science this year, recently described as "not only well designed" but "politically successful." 
Part of its political success came from using the revenue to provide tax credits for individuals, and incentives for new technologies and programs to curb emissions. 
Following British Columbia's lead, Quebec set up a cap-and-trade system three years before Mr. Trudeau took office that integrated its carbon market with the one in California. In 2016, nearly all the other provinces agreed to Mr. Trudeau's program. 
So it looked as if Mr. Trudeau had achieved success. 
The main outlier then was Saskatchewan, which has about 3 percent of Canada's population but accounts for about 10 percent of its carbon emissions. Provincial officials had vehemently refused to be a part of Mr. Trudeau's plan. Manitoba also had reservations. 
In recent months, they have gained plenty of company. 
One of the first acts of Ontario's new Progressive Conservative government was to kill its cap-and-trade system. A conservative government in New Brunswick also pulled out, as did Manitoba ultimately. 
Suddenly, it seemed, governments representing only about half the country's population were going along with Mr. Trudeau's plan. 
Scott Moe, the premier of Saskatchewan, has become, along with Premier Doug Ford of Ontario, one of Canada's leading carbon tax critics. 
"This is not in any way, shape or form an effective environmental policy -- it is only a policy that costs families money unnecessarily," Mr. Moe said in his office in the provincial legislature. 
"When the federal government feels they know best and they impose what I feel are flawed policies on all of the people of the nation is where we run into challenges," he added. 
Mr. Moe is quick to argue that his opposition to carbon taxes doesn't mean his province is not taking action. It's just that it found a way to do it without pricing pollution, Mr. Moe said, by proposing, for example, limits on the largest industrial polluters. Mr. Ford has introduced his own carbon tax-free approach. 
But Ms. McKenna said neither province's proposal was adequate because they did not impose a cost on carbon. 
So for the four renegade provinces, her government will introduce a federal carbon tax in April. And in an effort to get around the criticism that the tax will unfairly burden individuals through price hikes, the government will rebate the money it collects, much of it from industry rather than individuals, to taxpayers. 
About 80 percent of Saskatchewan families, Ms. McKenna said, will receive more in refunds than they pay in carbon taxes. 
Still, Ms. McKenna acknowledged, Canada was not on track to meet its overall emission reduction goals. 
"It's not going to happen overnight," Ms. McKenna said. "I think it's unfortunately a trend that we see with some conservative governments that they want to fight progress. They want to fight climate action." 
In Estevan, where the roads can be as relentlessly straight as the landscape is flat, many people dislike the carbon tax. 
The area is home to one of the few remaining coal-fired electrical power plants in Canada, as well as the mines that feed them. The province's sparse population means that driving children two hours to a hockey games is routine. 
Mr. Gilliss, whose company Gilliss Casing Services was founded by his father, fears that a carbon tax will prompt his customers to drive just 16 miles down the highway in front of his tidy workshop to the United States. 
He characterized Mr. Trudeau's plan as "take, take, take." 
"It's a little anti-Trudeau out here as you could very well imagine," Mr. Gilliss said after checking the bad news of oil prices on his computer. "I've got one truck parked in the back and one of the guys put a bumper sticker on it that says: If you voted Liberal in last election, you should maybe sit this one out." 
AuthorAffiliation 
Follow Ian Austen on Twitter: @ianrausten 
Photograph 
Oil fields around Estevan, Saskatchewan. Dylan Gilliss, left, the owner of a company that provides workers and equipment for drilling, sees carbon pricing as a threat to his business. "It's going to come on the backs of the men," he said. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AMBER BRACKEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) Copyright New York Times Company Dec 10, 2018 
Subject 	Politics; 

Taxes; 

Environmental tax; 

Provinces; 
Environmental policy; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Climate change; 
Emissions trading; 

Carbon; 
Economic models; 

Pollution 


Location  Manitoba Canada; Canada; Quebec Canada; Poland; United States--US;  
British Columbia Canada; Saskatchewan Canada; California  
People  Trump, Donald J; McKenna, Catherine; Trudeau, Justin; Scheer, Andrew  
Company / organization  Name: University of British Columbia  
NAICS: 611310;  
Name: Twitter Inc  
NAICS: 519130;  
Name: General Motors Corp  
NAICS: 333415, 336111, 336390  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/07/world/canada/justin-trudeau-carbon-tax.html  
Title  Too Strict, Too Lax: Trudeau's Carbon Tax Push Has Critics on All Sides: [Foreign Desk]  
Author  Austen, Ian  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.11  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Dec 10, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2153542384  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2153542384?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Dec 10, 2018  
Last updated  2018-12-10  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 17 of 236 


Climate Efforts Sputter as U.S. and China Duel: [Foreign Desk] 
Sengupta, Somini.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]09 Dec 2018: A.10. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Climate+Efforts+Sputter+as+U.S.+and+China+Duel%3A+%5BForeign+Desk%5 12-09&volume=&issue=&spage=A.10&au=Sengupta%2C+Somini&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd: , our email newsletter. 
They have the largest carbon footprints. Also the largest economies. Now, as diplomats meet in Poland for high-stakes climate negotiations, a pitched standoff between the United States and China threatens to slow global action on climate change precisely at a time when the risks of catastrophe are accelerating. 
The tensions between Washington and Beijing range from trade to cybersecurity to military rivalry in the Pacific. And while some of those issues have simmered for years, cooperation in the fight against climate change had once been a bright spot, so much so that it propelled the creation of the landmark global agreement in Paris in 2015 to curb greenhouse gas emissions. 
But then the Trump administration announced its intention to pull out of the Paris pact altogether, rejecting the scientific consensus that greenhouse gas emissions are warming the planet. That represented perhaps the most consequential diplomatic reversal of the Trump era. 
"The biggest threats to the planet are the lack of U.S. climate leadership at home and the unwillingness of the U.S. to engage with China," said Joanna Lewis, a China specialist at Georgetown University. "The rest of the world looks to the U.S. and China for leadership, and it has become clear that, as the alliance has waned, global momentum to address climate change has slowed." 
Taken together, the emissions produced by the United States and China account for more than 40 percent of the global total. In both countries, emissions went up this year, according to an analysis issued this week by the Global Carbon Project in which one scientist likened the acceleration of global emissions to "a speeding freight train." 
That fact hovers over Katowice, the Polish city where the United Nations is leading two weeks of talks to figure out how to implement the Paris Agreement. Adding to the urgency of that meeting, the promises made so far under the Paris pact are nowhere enough to avert the worst effects of climate change. A United Nations scientific report issued this fall warned that, if emissions continued to rise at the current rate, the planet would warm so fast that it could lead to widespread food shortages, wildfires, and floods. 
It's hard to imagine a worse time for the world's two behemoths -- the United States, traditionally representing the rich world in climate negotiations, and China, representing the developing countries -- to be locked in a cycle of intense distrust at the highest levels. 
"The U.S.-China climate honeymoon is definitely over. That much is very clear," said Li Shuo, a senior policy adviser for Greenpeace Asia, based in Beijing. "The U.S. is asking a lot but there's nothing that the U.S. can give. That's the fundamental challenge." 
For China's part -- even though its emissions have grown in the last two years, mainly because of continued coal use -- the country is on track to meet its modest, self-imposed Paris target, which is to reach peak emissions by 2030. In fact, it appears on track to do so ahead of schedule, according to independent analysts. It is also ramping up renewable energy sources faster than any country in the world. The emissions intensity of its economy, geared to manufacture goods for the rest of the world, is declining. 
At the same time though, coal plants have not closed down as fast as some had expected. Much more worrying, China is exporting coal technology abroad, with its powerful state-owned companies proposing to build coal-fired power plants from Kenya to Pakistan, effectively exporting its carbon footprint. 
Now, with additional economic headwinds from Washington, China confronts a new debate: Should it continue to move rapidly away from its emissions-intensive industrial economy, or should it simply slow down? 
Former Vice President Al Gore, who has been closely watching climate diplomacy, said in an interview last week that although the trade war with the United States could slow the country's transition away from a heavily fossil fuel based economy, he did not think that China would change course. Its leaders are under political pressure to clean up the air. It is ramping up wind and solar energy sources. It is on track to be the world's largest electric vehicle market. Its carbon market is to come into effect next year, though only in a handful of sectors. 
"They plan their work and work their plan," Mr. Gore said. "I expect them to continue on the journey they mapped out regardless of what the U.S. does." 
So far, there is no evidence that China is reversing course. Still, the United States posture, and the concerns over a continued slowdown of the Chinese economy give ballast to Chinese promoters of heavy industry, some China analysts say, putting President Xi Jinping under considerable pressure. 
"People are widely concerned that this trade dispute will lead to some unemployment," said Zou Ji, the Beijing-based head of the Energy Foundation of China, a group that calls on China to transition away from fossil fuels to clean energy sources. "I feel the pace of emissions abatement could become slower." 
Three key issues pit the United States and China against each other in the climate negotiations, where American negotiators are participating pending the country's formal exit at the end of 2020. 
First, the United States wants robust rules across the board for all countries to account for their own emissions and be subject to outside scrutiny. China insists on different reporting rules for developing countries. China has India on its side on this demand, though not other vulnerable poor countries, who are wary of looser rules for China. 
"We are basically designing, in Katowice, a whole set of rules that will bind China but that will not cover the United States," said Mr. Li of Greenpeace Asia. "It creates a fundamental sense of unfairness in the Chinese mind." 
The rule book, as it's called, is the centerpiece of the Katowice negotiations, which began Monday and run through Dec. 14. 
Second, the United States, under the Trump administration, has pulled back from helping poor countries adapt to the ravages of climate change. China, which considers itself the leader of the world's developing countries, is goading the rich world to pony up -- and be held accountable for it. 
And third, perhaps most importantly, the test for China is whether, in the face of an American retreat, it will ramp up its ambition to cut emissions in the coming years. 
The consequences for the world's 7.6 billion people are enormous. 
"It takes the pressure off of greater ambition and faster action," said Alex Wang, a University of California Los Angeles law professor who follows China's environmental policy, of the United States-China tensions. "If you're coming from the perspective that we're already way behind, then the current dynamic is bad." 
For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. 

Photograph 
President Trump and President Xi Jinping in Buenos Aires. The U.S. and China had once cooperated in fighting climate change. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PABLO MARTINEZ MONSIVAIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS); The United Nations climate conference in Katowice, Poland, where talks are focused on carrying out the Paris Agreement. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KACPER PEMPEL/REUTERS) Copyright New York Times Company Dec 9, 2018 
Subject 	Emissions; 

Alternative energy sources; 

Greenhouse effect; 
Climate change; 
Shortages 


Location 	Beijing China; United States--US; Kenya; India; China; California; Poland; Pakistan; 

Los Angeles California; Asia 


People 	Trump, Donald J; Xi Jinping; Gore, Albert Jr 
Company / organization 	Name: United Nations--UN 

NAICS: 928120; 

Name: Twitter Inc NAICS: 519130; 
Name: Georgetown University NAICS: 611310; 
Name: Energy Foundation NAICS: 541711; 
Name: Greenpeace NAICS: 813312, 813940 
URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/07/climate/us-china-climate-change.html 
Title 	Climate Efforts Sputter as U.S. and China Duel: [Foreign Desk] 
Author 	Sengupta, Somini 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.10 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Dec 9, 2018 
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2153173815  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2153173815?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Dec 9, 2018  
Last updated  2018-12-09  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 18 of 236 


The Paris Climate Pledges Are Overly Modest. And They're Not Being Met.: [Foreign Desk] 
Plumer, Brad.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]08 Dec 2018: A.5. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=The+Paris+Climate+Pledges+Are+Overly+Modest.+And+They%27re+Not+Being 12-08&volume=&issue=&spage=A.5&au=Plumer%2C+Brad&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Three years after nearly 200 countries signed a landmark climate agreement in Paris, they are still far off-track from preventing severe global warming in the decades ahead. 
This month, diplomats from around the world are gathering in Katowice, Poland, to discuss stepping up their efforts. 
It's an enormous challenge. Under the Paris deal, every nation volunteered a plan to curtail its greenhouse gas emissions between then and 2030. But many large emitters 
aren't even on track to meet their self-imposed targets, according to new data from Climate Action Tracker. 

What's more, even if every country did manage to fulfill its individual pledge, the world would still be on pace to heat up well in excess of 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees 

Fahrenheit) over preindustrial levels, the threshold that world leaders vowed to stay "well below" in Paris because they deemed it unacceptably risky. 
Right now, current pledges put the world on pace for around 3 degrees Celsius of warming this century. To reach the broader Paris goals, countries would have to drastically 
accelerate the transition toward clean energy over the next 12 years. But with global emissions on pace to rise sharply this year, time is running short. 

"It is plain we are way off course," said António Guterres, the secretary general of the United Nations, in a speech in Katowice this week. "We are still not doing enough, nor moving fast enough, to prevent irreversible and catastrophic climate disruption." 
United States: Falling short Under the Paris Agreement, former President Barack Obama pledged to slash United States emissions 26 to 28 percent below 2005 levels by 2025. That was already a tough task: While pollution from the country's power plants is falling rapidly as utilities retire coal plants in favor of cleaner natural gas and renewables, sectors like transportation and heavy industry have proved harder to clean up. 
But President Trump has disavowed the Paris agreement altogether and is now moving to dismantle Obama-era climate regulations like efficiency standards for cars and light trucks. And while some states, including New York and California, are pursuing their own policies on renewable energy and electric vehicles, they may not prove sufficient to close the gap. 
For now, analysts say the United States will fall well short of its Paris pledge. That, in turn, could make it harder for future administrations to pursue the even deeper emissions 
cuts by midcentury that are needed to help keep the world well below 2 degrees of global warming. 
European Union: New targets? 

Although the European Union is on pace to fall slightly short of its promise to cut emissions 40 percent by 2030, compared with 1990 levels, that may soon change. 
In June, European officials agreed on more ambitious new measures for renewable power and energy efficiency which, if implemented, would help the union meet its overall 
emissions targets, according to Climate Action Tracker. And officials are now debating whether to revise their 2030 pledge and pursue even deeper emissions cuts. 

Still, there are plenty of obstacles: While countries like Britain and the Netherlands have vowed to phase out the use of coal power, Poland is currently building new coal plants. And the Continent as a whole has been slower to curb pollution from cars and trucks. 
China: 'Highly insufficient' 
Experts say China submitted a Paris pledge that was relatively easy to meet: Overall emissions would peak around 2030 and the country would get 20 percent of its energy 
from nonfossil sources. 

The country appears to be on track to hit that target. Analysts now expect China's once-insatiable demand for coal to level off by the mid-2020s, and the government is 

investing heavily in cleaner sources like solar, wind and nuclear. China also now sells more electric cars and buses than the rest of the world combined. 
But the analysts at Climate Action Tracker rated China's existing pledge as "highly insufficient." The country's coal emissions, for instance, would most likely need to decline 
significantly by 2030 rather than simply flatten out. 

India: Making progress 
India, which has long held that wealthier countries should take the lead on cutting emissions, has a less restrictive Paris pledge than Europe or the United States. 

The country vowed to install more clean energy and improve its carbon intensity, the amount of carbon dioxide emitted per unit of gross domestic product, while still allowing total emissions to rise through 2030. India's emissions per person emissions would most likely still be lower than America's or China's. 
Based on recent trends, it now looks plausible that India could surpass those goals as the falling cost of solar power and shifting market conditions have allowed the country to scale back plans for new coal plants. But the country's emissions trajectory remains uncertain, and the Indian government has asked for financial assistance from other countries to help ratchet up its climate efforts. 
Brazil and Indonesia: Forests 
Brazil and Indonesia are the world's seventh- and eighth-largest emitters of greenhouse gases, in large part because farmers in those countries continue to burn and clear away carbon-rich rain forests and peatlands for agriculture. 
The two countries vowed to better protect their forests as part of their Paris pledges, but both are now struggling to do so. In Brazil, deforestation rates have increased since 2012 after years of decline. And President-elect Jair Bolsanaro, who takes office in January, has vowed to roll back safeguards in the Amazon rain forest in order to promote ranching and logging. 
What happens next 
Negotiators are meeting in Katowice now to discuss guidelines for making national pledges and policies more detailed and transparent, so that outsiders can gauge individual countries' progress (or lack thereof) more precisely. 
Many of the Paris pledges remain fairly opaque, and nations are often vague on what specific policies they will take to meet them. There is still no official mechanism for quantifying progress. As a result, groups like Climate Action Tracker have had to make rough estimates as to whether countries are on pace to meet their pledges and how much further each country would need to go for the world to stay well below 2 degrees of global warming. 
Increasing the transparency of pledges could make it easier for countries to pressure one another do more, but ultimately, it will be up to national and local governments to decide to take stronger action. World leaders have informally agreed to consider strengthening their existing pledges before another round of talks in 2020, but it is still unclear how much they intend to do. 
The Katowice talks "will be in many ways the opening bell on that sprint toward 2020," said Nathan Hultman, director of the Center for Global Sustainability at the University of Maryland and a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. 

Chart 
Current emissions path; Reductions pledged in Paris; Needed to stay below 2°C (Source: Climate Action Tracker) (CHARTS BY NADJA POPOVICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) Copyright New York Times Company Dec 8, 2018 
Subject 	Clean technology; 

Electric vehicles; 
Trucks; 

Forests; 

Industrial plant emissions; 

Emissions trading; 

Rainforests; 
Carbon; 
Global warming; 
Coal-fired power plants; 
Alternative energy sources; 

Paris Agreement 


Location 	United Kingdom--UK; Brazil; Poland; Indonesia; Europe; Netherlands; New York; 

United States--US; India; China; California 


People 	Trump, Donald J; Obama, Barack 
Company / organization 	Name: University of Maryland 

NAICS: 611310; 

Name: United Nations--UN NAICS: 928120; 
Name: Brookings Institution NAICS: 541711, 541720; 
Name: European Union NAICS: 926110, 928120 
Title  The Paris Climate Pledges Are Overly Modest. And They're Not Being Met.: [Foreign Desk]  
Author  Plumer, Brad  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  

Pages  A.5  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Dec 8, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2151610092  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2151610092?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Dec 8, 2018  
Last updated  2018-12-10  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 19 of 236 


Effort Builds to Deny West Virginia Democrat a Key Senate Role on Climate: [National Desk] 
Sheryl Gay Stolberg.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]07 Dec 2018: A.15. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Effort+Builds+to+Deny+West+Virginia+Democrat+a+Key+Senate+Role+on+Cli 12-07&volume=&issue=&spage=A.15&au=Sheryl+Gay+Stolberg&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- During his first run for the Senate in 2010, Joe Manchin III, the Democrat from West Virginia, took aim -- literally -- at a climate change bill, shooting a bullet through it in a television ad. Now some Democrats are taking aim at Mr. Manchin, declaring him unfit to be the top Democrat on the committee that handles climate change. 
As the Senate undergoes the customary postelection reshuffling of committees, Mr. Manchin, whose state is a major coal producer, has become a leading contender to become the senior Democrat on the Energy and Natural Resources Committee. But his pro-coal views and past campaign contributions from coal companies are causing a stir on his party's left. 
Over the past several days, two potential Democratic White House aspirants -- Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington and Tom Steyer, the billionaire philanthropist who has made fighting climate change his signature issue -- have joined environmental advocates in calling on Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, to keep Mr. Manchin out of the ranking spot. 
"He supports Donald Trump's dirty energy agenda," Mr. Inslee wrote in an email to supporters. "He simply can't be trusted to make the bold, progressive decisions we need." 
The push to block Mr. Manchin -- which is unlikely to succeed -- underscores the deep fissures among Democrats as they head into the 2020 campaign, where they will be balancing a desire to energize the left against appealing to moderates and white working-class voters who voted in 2016 for President Trump. 
Mr. Manchin just won a tough re-election bid in a state Mr. Trump won by more than 40 points in 2016. In a party where the left is feeling emboldened, he is a member of a rare and shrinking breed: the centrist Democrat. 
"Come in and talk to me, the door's open," Mr. Manchin said Thursday, brushing past reporters who sought his response to his critics. If the ranking position, which is awarded on the basis of seniority, is offered to him, he said he would take it. "I want to do whatever I can to help my country and my state," he said. 
The senator has also addressed his critics another way, by reversing himself to vote against Mr. Trump's nominee to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. 
Mr. Manchin was the sole Democrat to vote in favor of the nominee, Bernard McNamee, in committee. But he changed his mind, he said, after seeing video footage of Mr. McNamee denying that climate change is caused by humans. 
A statement he issued seemed designed to send a strong message to his detractors. 
"Climate change is real, humans have made a significant impact, and we have the responsibility and capability to address it urgently," it said. Despite his opposition, Mr. McNamee was confirmed on Thursday, 50 to 49. 
Mr. Manchin's ability to win as a Democrat in a deep-red state has helped hold down the Republican majority in the Senate. But he votes with Mr. Trump 60.8 percent of the time, according to the website FiveThirtyEight. Fewer than half of his votes line up with the positions advanced by the League of Conservation Voters, an environmental advocacy group. 
He is also about to lose his two closest ideological compatriots: Senator Joe Donnelly of Indiana and Senator Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota, Democrats who lost their re­election bids last month. Both of them voted against the confirmation of Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh; Mr. Manchin, bowing to the will of his constituents, was the lone Democrat to vote in favor. 
Mr. Manchin's campaign contributions from coal and energy companies have also drawn the ire of the progressive left. Of the 20 senators who received the most money from coal mining interests in 2018, he ranks 11th and is the sole Democrat, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, which tracks campaign finance. 
Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, the firebrand Democrat and incoming House freshman from New York who has been pushing for a so-called Green New Deal, cited those contributions last week when she expressed opposition to Mr. Manchin. 
"I have concerns over the senator's chairmanship just because I do not believe that we should be financed by the industries that we are supposed to be legislating and regulating and touching with our legislation," Ms. Ocasio-Cortez told reporters at a news conference with members of the Sunrise Movement, an environmental advocacy group. Movement members also protested outside Mr. Schumer's New York office on Monday. 
Under the seniority system by which Senate Democrats govern themselves, several of Mr. Manchin's colleagues are ahead of him in the line for the top spot on the energy panel. But for various reasons -- including the tradition that a senator serves as the ranking member of only one committee -- they seem likely to turn it down. The maneuvering, which will be sorted out before the next Congress begins, is like a game of political musical chairs. 
Senator Maria Cantwell of Washington, currently the top Democrat on the energy panel, may move to the Commerce Committee, replacing Senator Bill Nelson of Florida, who lost his re-election bid. Next in seniority is Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon, but he wants to keep his top spot on the Finance Committee. Then comes Senator Debbie Stabenow of Michigan, who has shown no inclination to vacate the top spot on the Agriculture Committee. 
That leaves Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, an independent who caucuses with Democrats and holds the party's top spot on the Budget Committee; he has not stated his intentions, and waved away questions on Thursday. If Mr. Sanders rejects Energy and Commerce in favor of remaining the ranking member on the budget panel, the job would be Mr. Manchin's -- unless Mr. Schumer intervened, which would be likely to cause an uproar in his caucus. 
A spokesman for Mr. Schumer declined to comment. 
As the controversy swirled, other Democrats came to Mr. Manchin's defense on Thursday, arguing that no one senator -- not even one in a top spot of a relevant committee -­will set policy on climate change. Even so, Mr. Manchin's future is likely to come up when Democrats organize their committee slates for the coming Congress. 
"I'm sure there will be some discussion among members; I think it's a worthwhile conversation to have," said Senator Christopher S. Murphy, Democrat of Connecticut. But, Mr. Murphy added, "nobody in our caucus has veto power over climate policy, whether they're the ranking member on a committee or not." 

Photograph 
Progressives in the Democratic Party say Senator Joe Manchin III of West Virginia, a major coal-producing state, should not be given a big voice when it comes to climate change policy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARAH SILBIGER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) Copyright New York Times Company Dec 7, 2018 
Subject 	Nominations; 
Seniority; 
Environmental policy; 
Energy industry; 

Climate change; 
Bills; 

Campaign contributions; 
Committees; 

Coal 


Location 	North Dakota; Indiana; Florida; Michigan; Vermont; West Virginia; Connecticut; New York; 

Oregon 


People 	Trump, Donald J; Sanders, Bernard; Cantwell, Maria; Manchin, Joe; Heitkamp, Heidi; 

Stabenow, Debbie; Schumer, Charles E; Inslee, Jay; Donnelly, Joe; Steyer, Tom; 

Ocasio-Cortez, Alexandria; Murphy, Christopher S; Wyden, Ron; Nelson, Bill 


Company / organization 	Name: Center for Responsive Politics 

NAICS: 541720; 

Name: League of Conservation Voters NAICS: 813940; 
Name: Federal Energy Regulatory Commission--FERC NAICS: 926110, 926130; 
Name: Congress NAICS: 921120; 
Name: Democratic Party NAICS: 813940; 
Name: Senate 

NAICS: 921120 


URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/06/us/politics/joe-manchin-energy-committee.html 
Title 	Effort Builds to Deny West Virginia Democrat a Key Senate Role on Climate: [National Desk] 
Author 	Sheryl Gay Stolberg 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.15 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date  Dec 7, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2150999602  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2150999602?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Dec 7, 2018  
Last updated  2018-12-07  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 20 of 236 


Emissions Surge, Hastening Perils Across the Globe: [Foreign Desk] 
Pierre-Louis, Kendra.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]06 Dec 2018: A.1. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Emissions+Surge%2C+Hastening+Perils+Across+the+Globe%3A+%5BForeign+ 12-06&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Pierre-Louis%2C+Kendra&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd: , our email newsletter. 
Greenhouse gas emissions worldwide are growing at an accelerating pace this year, researchers said Wednesday, putting the world on track to face some of the most severe consequences of global warming sooner than expected. 
Scientists described the quickening rate of carbon dioxide emissions in stark terms, comparing it to a "speeding freight train" and laying part of the blame on an unexpected surge in the appetite for oil as people around the world not only buy more cars but also drive them farther than in the past -- more than offsetting any gains from the spread of electric vehicles. 
"We've seen oil use go up five years in a row," said Rob Jackson, a professor of earth system science at Stanford and an author of one of two studies published Wednesday. "That's really surprising." 
Worldwide, carbon emissions are expected to increase by 2.7 percent in 2018, according to the new research, which was published by the Global Carbon Project, a group of 100 scientists from more than 50 academic and research institutions and one of the few organizations to comprehensively examine global emissions numbers. Emissions rose 1.6 percent last year, the researchers said, ending a three-year plateau. 
Reducing carbon emissions is central to stopping global warming. Three years ago nearly 200 nations hammered out the Paris Agreement with a goal of holding warming below 
3.6 degrees Fahrenheit (two degrees Celsius) over preindustrial levels. 
Avoiding that threshold -- already considered challenging -- is viewed as a way to stave off some of the worst effects of climate change, like melting polar ice caps and rising sea levels. For the Paris goals to be met, scientists say, global emissions from power plants, factories, cars and trucks, as well as those from deforestation, would need to swiftly begin declining to zero. 
President Trump, however, has vowed to pull the United States out of the accord and has moved to roll back Obama-era regulations designed to limit emissions from vehicle tailpipes and power-plant smokestacks. On Tuesday he wrote on Twitter that the Paris Agreement was "fatally flawed" because its system of voluntary pledges let other countries off the hook, adding that "American taxpayers -- and American workers -- shouldn't pay to clean up others countries' pollution." 
An American withdrawal would represent a serious blow to the pact. The United States, one of the wealthiest nations in the world, is responsible for a third of all human-caused carbon emissions to date, more than any other country. China is now the largest emitter of heat-trapping gases. 
The new report comes as delegates from nearly 200 countries are meeting in Poland to debate their next steps under the Paris climate agreement. Many nations haven't been meeting their self-imposed targets. 
The new assessment is the third major scientific report in recent months to send a message that the world is failing to make sufficient progress to avoid the worst effects of climate change. 
Last month the White House published findings by 13 federal agencies predicting that global warming could knock hundreds of billions of dollars off the size of the American economy by century's end, particularly by disrupting trade and agriculture. And in October, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, a United Nations scientific group, issued an alarming report warning that emissions are rising at a rate that will open the door to widespread food shortages, wildfires, coastal flooding and population displacement by 2040. 
As part of the latest report, scientists wrote Wednesday in the journal Nature that the recent rise in global emissions, combined with other factors such as natural temperature fluctuations, could bring those dire consequences a decade sooner, by 2030. 
"For those of us that work in this space, seeing the rates of emissions accelerate is deeply dismaying, and it confirms the very clear lack of systemic action and change that we're seeing across many lines of state, national and global organization," said Sarah E. Myhre, a research associate at the University of Washington who was not involved in the studies. 
"It just means that the problem will be harder to fix down the line," she said. "We're continuing to buck-pass this problem to our kids and our future selves." 
The analysis found that the world is on pace to release a record 37.1 gigatons of planet-warming emissions in 2018, led in large part by China, the United States and India. That is roughly 100,000 times the weight of the Empire State Building. 
Even as coal has fallen out of favor in some markets, the rise in emissions has been driven by stronger demand for natural gas and oil, scientists said. And even as the use of renewable energy like solar and wind power has expanded exponentially, it has not been enough to offset the increased use of fossil fuels. 
"We thought oil use had peaked in the U.S. and Europe 15 years ago," Dr. Jackson said. "The cheap gasoline prices, bigger cars and people driving more miles are boosting oil use at rates that none of us expected." 
More investment will be needed in the transportation sector to cut pollution, said Corinne Le Quéré, a professor of climate change science and policy at the University of East Anglia and lead author of one of the new studies. "We have electric cars, but we need charging points, we need to lower the costs of electric vehicles," she said. 
China produces 27 percent of global emissions, according to the report. The United States accounts for 15 percent of emissions, the European Union 10 percent and India 7 percent. 
China's emissions are projected to rise 4.7 percent in 2018, the report said. The country is stimulating manufacturing to counterbalance its slowing economy, allowing more coal-based manufacturing that it had avoided in the past, Dr. Jackson said. 
China is investing heavily in renewable energy, but it is also building new coal-fired power plants at home and planning others in new markets such as sub-Saharan Africa. 
United States emissions are expected to rise 2.5 percent this year after several years of declines, and despite a shift away from coal toward cleaner sources of energy. Dr. Jackson attributed part of the increase this year to a colder-than-normal winter in some parts of the country and a hotter summer in other parts, which inflated demand for heating and cooling. 
In India, a projected emissions increase of 6.3 percent is linked to the country's effort to provide electricity to 300 million people who currently lack it. 
Last year, extreme weather disasters cost the United States a record $306 billion. 
Dr. Jackson said the new report was "not good news," but added that it still contained "some glimmers of hope," particularly about air pollution associated with the burning of coal for fuel. "Coal use has dropped 40 percent in the United States, replaced by natural gas and renewables," he said. "That's saving lives as well as helping the climate problem." 
For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. 

Photograph 
A coal plant in Germany, top, and a taxi in Ivory Coast. The use of renewable energy is growing, but not enough to offset the reliance on fossil fuels. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SASCHA STEINBACH/EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK) (A8) Copyright New York Times Company Dec 6, 2018 
Subject 	Research; 
Scientists; 
Emissions; 

Electric vehicles; 
Researchers; 

Industrial plant emissions; 

Climate change; 
Natural gas; 
Gases; 
Fossil fuels; 
Carbon; 
Global warming; 
Coal-fired power plants; 
Alternative energy sources; 

Paris Agreement; 

Environmental impact; 
Greenhouse gases; 
Renewable resources; 
Climate science 


Location 	Africa; Poland; Europe; United States--US; Ivory Coast; India; Germany; China 
People 	Trump, Donald J 
Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 

NAICS: 924110; 

Name: United Nations--UN NAICS: 928120; 
Name: European Union NAICS: 926110, 928120; 
Name: Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change NAICS: 541712, 928120 
URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/05/climate/greenhouse-gas-emissions-2018.html 
Title  Emissions Surge, Hastening Perils Across the Globe: [Foreign Desk]  
Author  Pierre-Louis, Kendra  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.1  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Dec 6, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2150282398  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2150282398?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Dec 6, 2018  
Last updated  2018-12-06  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 21 of 236 


In Iowa, Bloomberg Says He'd Make Environment 'The Issue' of 2020 Race: [National Desk] 
Trip Gabriel.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]05 Dec 2018: A.20. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=In+Iowa%2C+Bloomberg+Says+He%27d+Make+Environment+%27The+Issue% 12-05&volume=&issue=&spage=A.20&au=Trip+Gabriel&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa -- On a wintry day, Michael R. Bloomberg stood in black tassel loafers in melting snow while he inspected solar panels on a rooftop, then said he would 
make climate change "the issue" of the 2020 presidential race. 
Mr. Bloomberg, the former New York City mayor who is mulling a run for president, was blunt about his determination to combat the impact of human activity on the 
environment, and he made clear once again his willingness to take on the coal industry. 

"I've been very active in closing coal-fired power plants," Mr. Bloomberg boasted when asked whether a candidate whose top concern is climate change could appeal to voters in 
the regions like eastern Ohio who helped put President Trump in the White House. 
While praising Iowa's corn-based ethanol as an intermediary fuel needed in the short run, Mr. Bloomberg said it was well past time to cut coal entirely from the energy picture. 

"One thing that shouldn't be part of the mix at all now is coal," he said. 
It was reminiscent of a comment that came to haunt Hillary Clinton in 2016, when she said her policies would put many coal miners out of work -- a stance diametrically 
opposed to that ofMr. Trump, who made reinvigorating the coal industry a centerpiece of his economic message. 

While touring a company that installs solar panels in Cedar Rapids, Mr. Bloomberg, 76, attacked President Trump's rejection of his administration's own report about the dire economic costs from climate change. 
"If you don't believe in science, I don't know what to tell you," he said. "I guess when you need a doctor, you go to a witch doctor or something." 
Mr. Bloomberg was making his first foray of the 2020 campaign to Iowa on Tuesday, though he was by no means the earliest bird to the state with the first nominating contest. 
With the state's caucuses still 14 months away, the website Iowa Starting Line has tracked more than two dozen potential Democratic contenders who have already visited. 

A billionaire philanthropist, Mr. Bloomberg arrived for four appearances in Iowaafter playing a major financial role in his party's broad midterm successes. The largess included a 

$250,000 donation to the Iowa Democratic Party for its statewide campaigns, said Matt Paul, an Iowa operative who helped arrange Mr. Bloomberg's visit. 
Some of Mr. Bloomberg's policies as mayor of New York, such as support for stop-and-frisk policing and opposition to Wall Street regulations, are at cross-purposes with 
progressives in his party, who have a large influence in Iowa. 

But Mr. Paul, who directed Mrs. Clinton's Iowa campaign in 2016, played downthose conflicts. He said Iowa Democrats were looking for the candidate who could best make Mr. Trump a one-term president. 
"What matters most to them is winning," he said. "I think '16 may have been a race about the résumé; '20 is going to be about victory." 
Once a competitive battleground in presidential elections, Iowa was won decisively by Mr. Trump in 2016, sending Democrats into a deep funk. The 2018 midterms brought 
them partial redemption. Democrats flipped two congressional seats, although their nominee for governor lost to the incumbent Republican, Kim Reynolds. 

The 2018 election underscored Democrats' weakness outside of major cities and university towns. 
Pete D'Alessandro, a top Iowa adviser to Senator Bernie Sanders in the 2016 caucuses, said Mr. Bloomberg would not have any problem appealing to progressives. His 

challenge, like that of all Democratic contenders, would come in second-tier cities like Davenport and Marshalltown, blue-collar strongholds that fell fully under Mr. Trump's sway in 2016. "Mike Bloomberg would do very well in Des Moines," Mr. D'Alessandro said. "So would Bernie Sanders or Joe Biden or whoever. But how does Mike Bloomberg do in the small 
cities? 
"Is he willing to not get into a limo, but get in a Jeep and drive to Marshalltown? That's a lot of work." 
Mr. Bloomberg had a jam-packed schedule on his one-day visit. He toured an electrical contractor that installs solar panels, and met with students at a community college 

studying wind technology. In the evening he met in Des Moines with Moms Demand Action, the gun-control group he supports financially, and appeared at a preview of a climate change movie he bankrolled, "Paris to Pittsburgh." 
Before he spoke at the screening, Mr. Bloomberg was interrupted by a dozen or so protesters from the Democratic Socialists of America, who accused him of being "Donald Trump lite" and insufficiently green because he supports fracking as a transitional option on the road to clean energy. 
As the protesters were led out by the police, Mr. Bloomberg joked that it was like being back in New York, and said he would meet with them. "People want recognition and respect," he said. "I'm happy to give them that." 
The field of potential 2020 Democrats highlighting climate change as a central issue is crowded. 
On Monday, Mr. Sanders led a town hall event on the topic that was broadcast on social media from Washington, in which he called global warming "the great crisis facing our planet and facing humanity." 
It is an issue that especially concerns young people, who flexed their muscles in the midterms, turning out in higher numbers than in any off-year election in the past quarter-century, according to one estimate. 
On the second issue he is most passionate about, gun safety, Mr. Bloomberg took a stance that might make it hard for many moderate Iowans to follow him. 
"I think if you have children at home maybe you shouldn't have a gun," he said. "That's just too dangerous." 

Photograph 
Michael R. Bloomberg, center, viewed solar panels at an electric company in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLIE NEIBERGALL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) Copyright New York Times Company Dec 5, 2018 
Subject 	Coal industry; 

Coal-fired power plants; 
Presidential elections; 
Climate change 


Location 	Pittsburgh Pennsylvania; New York; Ohio; Des Moines Iowa; Iowa 
People 	Trump, Donald J; Sanders, Bernard; Clinton, Hillary Rodham; Biden, Joseph R Jr 
Company / organization 	Name: Democratic Socialists of America 

NAICS: 813940; 

Name: Iowa Democratic Party NAICS: 813940 
URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/04/us/politics/bloomberg-iowa-2020.html 
Title 	In Iowa, Bloomberg Says He'd Make Environment 'The Issue' of 2020 Race: [National Desk] 
Author 	Trip Gabriel 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.20 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Dec 5, 2018 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	General Interest Periodicals--United States 
ISSN 	03624331 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2149565123  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2149565123?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Dec 5, 2018  
Last updated  2018-12-05  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 22 of 236 


E.P.A. Will Ease Path to New Coal Plants: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Friedman, Lisa.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]05 Dec 2018: B.3. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=E.P.A.+Will+Ease+Path+to+New+Coal+Plants%3A+%5BBusiness%2FFinancial+ 12-05&volume=&issue=&spage=B.3&au=Friedman%2C+Lisa&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd: , our email newsletter. 
WASHINGTON -- The Trump administration is poised to roll back a significant climate change regulation on coal-fired power plants, making it easier to build new coal plants in the United States. 
The Environmental Protection Agency is expected to announce the plan on Thursday, according to four people familiar with the administration's proposal who were not authorized to speak about it publicly. The proposal will eliminate Obama-era restrictions on newly built coal plants that in effect required them to include systems to capture the carbon dioxide they produced -- a technology that is still not in use on a commercial scale. 
The replacement measure eases those constraints, sending a powerful signal to the coal industry, as well as to other countries struggling with the political difficulties of addressing climate change, that the United States is trying to pave the way for coal-burning plants. 
The move is not expected to lead to the immediate construction of new coal plants, which aren't financially viable because of a combination of cheap natural gas and other environmental regulations. But the Trump administration's proposal is the latest message that the federal government is embracing the industry. 
"This says we're expecting more coal-fired power plants in the future, and we're going to make it easier to get there," said Richard J. Lazarus, a professor of environmental law at Harvard University. 
A spokesman for the E.P.A. did not respond to a request for comment on the agency's plans. 
Under the Obama administration plan, first proposed in 2013, carbon dioxide emissions from new coal plants were so severely limited that the rule effectively blocked new construction unless plants were outfitted with carbon capture and storage technology. The Trump administration intends to allow new coal plants to move forward, as long as they use newer and more efficient boilers and related technology than previous generations of facilities, according to the officials familiar with the proposal. 
Under the Trump administration's rule, carbon dioxide emissions from new coal plants would not be allowed to exceed 1,900 pounds of carbon dioxide per megawatt-hour of electricity, according to two people knowledgeable about the proposal. That's compared to the Obama rule, which limited emissions to 1,400 pounds of carbon dioxide per megawatt-hour. 
The rollback comes as delegates from nearly 200 countries are meeting in Poland to design a set of rules for the Paris Agreement, the 2015 accord that called on countries to voluntarily scale back planet-warming greenhouse gas emissions. 
The Trump administration has pledged to withdraw from the Paris Agreement, and at the Group of 20 meeting in Buenos Aires last week the United States declined to promise to uphold global climate change commitments. The administration is expected to send officials to the climate conference next week to hold a side event touting the benefits of coal. 
The administration has also worked to promote coal consumption abroad. Last month, Energy Secretary Rick Perry traveled to Poland to promote coal along with liquefied natural gas exports. And Andrew Wheeler, the acting administrator of the E.P.A., is a former coal lobbyist who in an interview last month declared that coal's global future remains bright. 
The same can't be said in the United States, where since 2010 nearly 40 percent of the nation's coal fleet has either been shut down or designated for closure, according to the American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity, a trade group that represents utilities and mining companies. 
Joe Aldina, director of coal analytics at the market research group S&P Global Platts, said he did not believe the revised E.P.A. rule would change the economic outlook for coal. Still, he said, the Obama-era rule had a "psychic impact" on the coal industry, which felt it was under government assault. "It was this feeling that you've blocked off the lifeline for the industry going forward," he said of the original restrictions. 
Allison D. Wood, a partner at the law firm Hunton Andrews Kurth who represents several electric utilities, called the forthcoming E.P.A. proposal "a correction of an error." Requiring new plants to be equipped with carbon capture and storage abilities is an undue burden, she said, since the technology has been not adequately demonstrated at commercial scale and is not readily available. The new rule, she said, "preserves the ability, should someone want to construct a coal-fired power plant, that they can." 
For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. 
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 
Copyright New York Times Company Dec 5, 2018 
Subject  Carbon sequestration; Emissions; Carbon dioxide; Coal industry; Coal-fired power plants; Paris Agreement; Industrial plant emissions; Climate change; Economic summit conferences; Natural gas  
Location  United States--US; Poland  
People  Wheeler, Andrew; Perry, Rick  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Harvard University 611310;  
Name: NAICS:  Twitter Inc 519130;  
Name: NAICS:  Group of Twenty 926110;  
Name: NAICS:  Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 924110;  
Name: NAICS:  American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity 813312, 813910  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/04/climate/epa-coal-carbon-capture.html  
Title  E.P.A. Will Ease Path to New Coal Plants: [Business/Financial Desk]  
Author  Friedman, Lisa  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.3  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Dec 5, 2018  
Section  B  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  

Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2149562816  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2149562816?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Dec 5, 2018  
Last updated  2018-12-05  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 23 of 236 


How New Climate Talks May Give Paris Accords Some Teeth: [Foreign Desk] 
Plumer, Brad.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]05 Dec 2018: A.8. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=How+New+Climate+Talks+May+Give+Paris+Accords+Some+Teeth%3A+%5BFo 12-05&volume=&issue=&spage=A.8&au=Plumer%2C+Brad&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd: , our email newsletter. 
WASHINGTON -- With the world still struggling to get global warming under control, diplomats from nearly 200 countries are scheduled to meet in Poland over the next two weeks to try to put global climate negotiations back on track. 
The focus of the meeting? To hammer out a key set of rules for the Paris climate agreement that, delegates hope, will help prod countries to cut fossil-fuel emissions far more deeply in the years ahead than they're currently doing. 
Under the Paris deal, signed by world leaders in 2015, virtually every country on Earth agreed to submit a plan for curbing emissions and vowed to ratchet up efforts over time. But key questions about how that process would unfold were left unanswered: How thoroughly should countries report their progress on emissions? How detailed should their plans for making further cuts be? 
Delegates at the conference -- being held in Katowice, at the heart of Poland's coal-mining region, and which is known as COP24, shorthand for its formal name -- will haggle over a "rule book" that will lay out the answers to those and other key questions. The debates are often technical, but highly contentious: China, for instance, has suggested that developing countries should be held to looser reporting standards, but Europe and the United States have pushed back. 
"This is going to be one of the most difficult negotiations we've seen yet," said Andrew Light, a senior climate change adviser at the State Department under President Barack Obama. "There are so many moving parts." 
The stakes are high: While countries agreed in Paris to keep global temperatures from rising more than 2 degrees Celsius, or 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit, above preindustrial levels, the plans that various countries have written so far are wildly insufficient to that task. Currently, the world is on pace for around 3 degrees Celsius of warming or more, bringing far higher risks of deadly heat waves, floods, the collapse of polar ice caps and other potential calamities. 
What's more, some countries are now backsliding. The Trump administration has disavowed the Paris deal and plans to pull the United States out by 2020, though the country will nonetheless send officials to Poland to participate in talks. Australia and Brazil also have newly elected leaders opposed to more forceful climate action, and some analysts are now finding signs of a "Trump effect" that could undermine global efforts on climate change. 
What's the point of these climate talks? 
To understand the Katowice meeting, it's useful to recall that the Paris climate agreement was largely intended to work through peer pressure among nations. 
Under the Paris agreement, countries aren't required to submit legally binding plans for reducing emissions. Instead, each country submits a voluntary plan tailored to its own domestic situation. This structure, the architects of the Paris deal said, was the most realistic way to get every world leader to agree to participate. 
But those architects also realized that countries aren't doing nearly enough to keep the world below 2 degrees Celsius of warming. So, under Paris, countries are required to meet periodically, assess their collective progress and see where stronger action can be taken. World leaders could then push each other to ratchet up their ambitions over time. 
At least, that's the theory. 
But for this peer-pressure dynamic to have any chance of working, analysts say, countries will need to track and report their progress on curbing emissions in a transparent, standardized way. And they'll need to offer much more detail on how they intend to cut fossil-fuel emissions in the future, so that outside experts can scrutinize their plans and point out exactly where current climate policies are falling short. 
Right now, this is often difficult to do. For instance, many countries, like Indonesia, have pledged to reduce their emissions below a "business as usual" trajectory. But without a clearer sense of what counts as business as usual, it can be hard to track how much these countries are really doing. 
So, in Katowice, negotiators will hash out these thorny details, like how rigorously countries should track their progress or what level of outside scrutiny future pledges should face. One current draft of the negotiating text is 236 pages long, and, according to an analysis by Carbon Brief, contains more than 3,700 items where countries still disagree on wording. Negotiators have until Dec. 14 to resolve all of them. 
What are the big disagreements? 
The rule book is expected to provoke fierce debate. Some developing countries have argued that they should be given much more leeway in how they report and track their progress, especially if they have limited technical capacity to measure their emissions. China, in particular, has long been wary of outside scrutiny. 
Other countries, like the United States and Europe, are leery of holding countries like China, India and others to a lower standard because developing nations account for 60 percent of global emissions today. 
Money is another perennial sticking point. India and African countries, for example, have long insisted that wealthy nations need to provide more financing to help poorer governments shift to clean energy or adapt to the impacts of global warming. They have pushed for much more detailed pledges on aid. 
Looming over all these debates is the uncertain role of the United States, which played a critical part in bringing countries together to finalize the initial Paris agreement in 2015. 
While the State Department is still sending a team to negotiate the rule book, the Trump administration has largely repudiated the Paris deal and has refused to send an additional $2 billion in climate aid that had been pledged by the Obama administration at Paris. It is still unclear how much influence the United States will have at this newest round of talks, or whether any other countries might step in to take a leadership role. 
"The global political environment is really challenging right now, with nationalism taking hold in many countries," said Samantha Gross, a fellow in the Cross-Brookings Initiative on Energy and Climate, in a recent telephone call with reporters. 
How will this affect climate change? 
The most important work on climate change policy will continue to be done by national and local governments around the world; by private businesses, investors and individuals; and by scientists and engineers developing clean-energy technologies. 
"While this multilateral process is important, it is not the solution to climate change," said Elliot Diringer, executive vice president at the Center for Climate and Energy Solutions. "At best, it can help facilitate climate action over time." 
In that regard, few countries are expected to come to Poland with sweeping new climate policy announcements. For instance, Germany, which has been discussing when to set a date for phasing out its coal consumption, has postponed any major decision until after the meeting. 
One big question is whether the negotiators will wrap up the talks with a strong rule book in hand. Under the Paris deal, countries have informally agreed to consider revising their near-term emissions pledges by 2020 to make them stronger. Analysts will be watching to see if countries emerge from Katowice with a clear intent to increase their ambitions, or if the Trump administration's refusal to tackle climate change might persuade other leaders to slacken their own efforts. 
If negotiators at Katowice struggle to agree on a robust rule book, or the talks deadlock entirely, that could further sap global momentum for climate action. 
"The worst case is a complete collapse of talks, which would be seen as an unraveling of the Paris agreement," said Mr. Diringer. "But for that reason, I think that's an outcome most governments would like to avoid." 
For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. 

Photograph 
Poland, host to the COP24 climate conference, has no serious plan in place to reduce its dependence on coal. The nation currently burns coal to provide nearly 80 percent of its energy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SEAN GALLUP/GETTY IMAGES) Copyright New York Times Company Dec 5, 2018 
Subject 	Emissions; 

Developing countries--LDCs; 
Architects; 
Paris Agreement; 

Environmental policy; 
Leadership; 

Climate change; 
Coal 


Location 	United States--US; India; Germany; Australia; China; Poland; Brazil; Indonesia; Europe 
People 	Obama, Barack 
Company / organization 	Name: Twitter Inc 

NAICS: 519130 


URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/04/climate/cop24-climate-conference-katowice.html 
Title 	How New Climate Talks May Give Paris Accords Some Teeth: [Foreign Desk] 
Author 	Plumer, Brad 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.8 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date  Dec 5, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2149562481  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2149562481?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Dec 5, 2018  
Last updated  2018-12-05  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 24 of 236 


Playing Host to Climate Conference, Poland Promotes Coal: [Foreign Desk] 
Berendt, Joanna.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]05 Dec 2018: A.8. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Playing+Host+to+Climate+Conference%2C+Poland+Promotes+Coal%3A+%5BF 12-05&volume=&issue=&spage=A.8&au=Berendt%2C+Joanna&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
KATOWICE -- As thousands of environmental experts from around the world arrived for a conference on climate change, hoping to find a way to stem the damage caused by 
burning fossil fuels, their Polish hosts arranged for a band to greet them. 
The Polish Coal Miners Band, dressed in smart black uniforms and wearing traditional miners' caps, struck up a tune as confused-looking delegates arrived at the convention 
center in Katowice, a city in the heart of southern Poland's coal mining country. 

Coal was proudly displayed in cases around the convention pavilions. Coal, fashioned into jewelry, was for sale. A coal-based cosmetics company even touted products that it 

claimed would treat both "body and soul." 
The message of the host country was not subtle. Coal, known as black gold here, is king. And while Poland was happy to host the United Nations' 24th annual climate change 
conference, that was not about to change. 

"There is no plan today to fully give up on coal," President Andrzej Duda said in his opening remarks on Monday. "Experts point out that our supplies run for another 200 years, 

and it would be hard not to use them." 
It was an inauspicious start to a conference that already faced steep challenges in trying to come up with meaningful agreements on the issue of global warming. Despite an 
ever-growing mountain of evidence that the harm done by rising temperatures is already being felt and will worsen unless urgent action is taken, signs of such action are 
scarce. 

"Even as we witness devastating climate impacts causing havoc across the world, we are still not doing enough, not moving fast enough, to prevent irreversible and catastrophic 

climate disruption," said António Guterres, the United Nations secretary general. 
But the Polish government's choice to use the forum to showcase its devotion to coal offered a discordant note to the start of the convention -- part of the much broader 
challenge facing Mr. Guterres and others who are urging countries to aim for net zero carbon emissions by 2050. 

To meet that goal, burning coal would need to be nearly completely eliminated. 
But the optimism that existed after the 2015 Paris agreement on climate change was reached three ago has largely faded. 
President Trump pulled the United States out of the accord, though its provisions were voluntary. Russia has yet to ratify the agreement. And many countries that remain 

committed to it are nowhere near meeting their targets for reducing greenhouse gases. 

The goal of the two-week United Nations meeting in Poland is to establish rules for carrying out the Paris agreement to limit the rise in global temperatures to between 1.5 and 
2 degrees Celsius. 
While Poland's dependence on coal is well known, the government's use of the global forum to promote its energy agenda was striking. 
Only days before the conference, Poland -- Europe's largest consumer of coal, and home to 33 of the 50 most polluted cities in the European Union -- announced that it planned 

to invest in new coal capacity next year. 
In another provocative move, Poland decided to partner with the biggest coal enterprises in the country to organize the United Nations conference. 
Even before the European Commission recently unveiled its strategy for a net zero carbon economy in the bloc by 2050, Poland and other states argued that if the biggest 

polluters, like the United States, do not intend to meet their emissions reductions goals, the smaller countries should not be expected to accept tougher targets. 

Poland, which has the highest domestic coal production in Europe, burns coal to provide nearly 80 percent of its energy. The government announced plans to reduce that to 
around 60 percent by 2030, partly through investing in modern, clean technologies. 
President Duda reminded the conference that Poland had managed to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by almost one-third compared with the base year of 1988, and 

talked about making sustainable development a priority. 
In a country where about 100,000 people still worked in the mining industry as of 2015, he said, planning for the transition to a low-carbon economy needs to include 
maintaining economic development and jobs. 

Patryk Bialas, the director of the Center for Innovation and Expertise at Euro-Center Science and Technology Park in Katowice, prepared for the conference in his company's headquarters, an ultra-innovative passive building equipped with technologies powered by renewable energy sources that make it far more efficient than traditional buildings. 
"It's completely stupid that in 2030 we will be still reliant on coal in 60 percent," he said. "Sure, the mining sector is an enormous source of income in the region and it will be very difficult to switch. But we need to start as soon as possible." 
Mr. Bialas acknowledged that coal is "a very strong part of our identity." 
"But it is also a part of our past," he added. "Our future is in the renewables." 
For Mr. Duda, the focus was on the present, and he used the second day of the conference to reinforce his pro-coal message. Skipping the meeting, he visited a mine in Brzeszcze, in southern Poland, and participated in celebrations of "Barborka," the feast day of St. Barbara, patron saint of miners. 
"I'm not going to argue with scientists how much human activity affects natural environment, including climate," Mr. Duda said. "Please, don't worry. As long as I am the president, I won't allow anyone to murder the Polish mining. You are a strategic industry that is the foundation of our economy." 

Photograph 
Above, the Polish Coal Miners Band performing in Katowice, Poland. President Andrzej Duda, left, made his position clear: "There is no plan today to fully give up on coal," he said Monday. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KACPER PEMPEL/REUTERS; SEAN GALLUP/GETTY IMAGES) Copyright New York Times Company Dec 5, 2018 
Subject 	Bands; 
Conventions; 
Emissions; 

Carbon; 
Coal mining; 

Presidents; 
Paris Agreement; 

Climate change 


Location 	Russia; United States--US; Poland; Europe 
People 	Trump, Donald J; Duda, Andrzej 
Company / organization 	Name: European Commission 

NAICS: 928120; 

Name: United Nations--UN NAICS: 928120; 
Name: European Union NAICS: 926110, 928120 
URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/04/world/europe/poland-coal-un.html 
Title 	Playing Host to Climate Conference, Poland Promotes Coal: [Foreign Desk] 
Author 	Berendt, Joanna 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.8 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Dec 5, 2018 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	General Interest Periodicals--United States 
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2149554988  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2149554988?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Dec 5, 2018  
Last updated  2018-12-05  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 25 of 236 


The American Citizen's Guide to Clean Air: [Style Desk] 
Bowles, Nellie.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]02 Dec 2018: ST.8. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=The+American+Citizen%27s+Guide+to+Clean+Air%3A+%5BStyle+Desk%5D&t 12-02&volume=&issue=&spage=ST.8&au=Bowles%2C+Nellie&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
The hottest new apocalypse preparation choice for 2019 is not a bunker or a gun or a lifeboat. And it's not moving to New Zealand. It's a small gadget that measures the air pollution around you. 
As climate change reports become increasingly dire, and as wildfires tear across the American West, and as trust in the federal government's air quality oversight fades, thousands of people around the country are taking air measurements into their own hands. 
Installed on a porch, a console table or hooked to a backpack, these small, sleek and increasingly inexpensive devices measure hyper-local air quality. They are marketed to the discerning and alarmed consumer. Some have begun to self-identify as "breathers." 
The Atmotube and PlumeLab's Flow are small and meant to be carried around, testing the air as a person walks or bikes, helping people plan routes that avoid bad air. The Awair looks like an old-timey radio and sits on a counter to test indoor air. Aeroqual's particulate monitor, one of the most advanced, looks like an enormous old-fashioned cellphone. 
But the monitor most intriguing local government environmental protection agencies and civilians alike is PurpleAir. It hooks up outside, connects to Wi-Fi, feeds into a global network and creates something like a guerrilla air quality monitoring network. 
Adrian Dybwad, 49, the founder of PurpleAir, would watch the dust from a nearby gravel pit blow near his house in Draper, Utah, where he lives with his wife. When the miners working there tried to expand it even closer, he decided he had to do something. First he had to prove there was something wrong with the air. 
"I said to myself, it's 2015, surely there must be a sensor that can tell me how much dust is in there," Mr. Dybwad said. 
But nothing he could find was both cheap and accurate. So he made his own. 
Neighbors got interested. Mr. Dybwad, who has a background in computer networking and surface-mount electronics, asked for donations and raised a few thousand dollars, and the community installed 80 sensors. The amount of floating particles in the air (called particulate matter) was high, especially on windy days. The closest government-run sensor was more than 10 miles away, and not picking up any of this. 
As the community gathered with sensors, plans for the mine expansion vaporized. 
In the last year, interest in the project has spiked. Now he has more than 3,000 monitors reporting data every day. He has built a map to show what every PurpleAir around the world is reporting (green is good, red is bad). Local government air quality monitoring groups are using the devices. 
Since the California wildfires in November, Mr. Dybwad said, traffic has been up 10,000 percent. In November, he moved production out of his backyard and into a new 2,200­square-foot workshop. 
"You can't give the government control over monitoring and enforcement because then you can just monitor to the extent that you want to enforce," he said. "Having this type of power in the public's hands, it gives a check on the government." 
Vera Kozyr, the chief executive of Atmotube, said her company sold 8,000 of its first version and is introducing a new tube in December. 
"We've seen a huge increase of interest in the last few months, especially from the U.S.," Ms. Kozyr said. "Awareness is just starting." 
Fans of the new pollution monitors tend to also be skeptical of government efforts to keep air clean and say they are wary of the air quality data that the government provides. "At some points," Ms. Kozyr said, "you can't trust the government." 
The Trump administration has urged the Environmental Protection Agency to ease air quality rules. New E.P.A. leadership seems to be on board with this plan. The administration is working to overhaul restrictions on coal, which by its own estimates could lead to as many as 1,400 more premature deaths annually by 2030 from an increase in the airborne particulate matter. 
President Trump claimed in October that the United States has the cleanest air in the world, which is inaccurate. The administration in August unveiled plans to freeze antipollution and fuel-efficiency standards for cars. Outlining the effort, the E.P.A. acting administrator, Andrew Wheeler, and the secretary of transportation, Elaine L. Chao, published an opinion piece in The Wall Street Journal called "Make Cars Great Again." 
Mr. Wheeler announced in October that next year the E.P.A. would be disbanding a key scientific review panel on clean air and pollution. 
Tony Cox, who sits on the E.P.A. committee on clean air, has said that the benefits of clean air are exaggerated and, in a paper sponsored by the American Petroleum Institute, that it cannot be shown that particulate matter in the air leads to deaths; this is contradicted by information provided by the E.P.A. Robert Phalen, a researcher who joined the E.P.A.'s board of science advisers to work on air quality issues, has said that air has gotten too clean. 
"Do we have sufficient monitors? No. There's not enough of them," said Janice E. Nolen, the vice president of the American Lung Association, citing both lack of funding and 
industry interests. "People don't necessarily want to know where air quality is bad in some cases." 
"Of about 3,000 counties" in the United States, Ms. Nolen said, "only eight or nine hundred have air quality monitors at all." 

Having so few monitors means that something like the downwind effects of a wildfire can be hard to detect. 
"It can be frustrating to residents when they see the air is bad, and then they look at a map and it's showing green or good because none of the monitors happen to be 
downwind of the smoke," said Sam Atwood, who works for the air quality management district that oversees much of Southern California. He installed a PurpleAir in his 
backyard. 

The monitors his district operates can cost over $100,000, Mr. Atwood said. A PurpleAir monitor goes for $180 to $260. So Mr. Atwood's district, with funding from a 2016 E.P.A. 

grant, is now running a pilot program to test low cost monitors with community groups across the state. 
Jim Leach, a retired information technology professional in Lafayette, Calif., realized that the closest government air quality sensor to him was six miles away in a quiet 
residential neighborhood. But he lives in a narrow valley with eight lanes of freeway running through it. For car pollution in particular, small distances can make a big difference 
in how much pollution is in the air. 

"What that sensor picks up is just not accurate for us," Mr. Leach said. 

He put a PurpleAir outside his house. The reading alarmed him. "I realized we had a much bigger problem than I'd thought," Mr. Leach said. 

Neighbors joined in. Now about a dozen houses nearby are also monitoring. 

"One thing I get asked quite a bit is, 'Why don't we know about this already? Why don't we know?"' Mr. Leach said. "People are starting to wake up and ask what is this stuff 

and how do I need to be protected." 
Now he is working with a local nonprofit to finish installing PurpleAir monitors in all the public schools in his city. 
Some companies selling high-end industrial-grade air quality testing systems are surprised by the rising consumer interest. 
With most of the Aeroqual sensors costing several thousand dollars, Carl Beck, the company's vice president of product, was shocked when a customer bought one to take on 

walks around New York. 
"We didn't imagine that our instruments would be used by consumers," Mr. Beck said, calling the sudden new market "a revelation." 
Miles Keogh, the executive director of the National Association of Clean Air Agencies, bikes around his home in Alexandria, Va., and worries a lot about what he breathes. 
"What is it citizens -- breathers -- can do?" he said. 
About two weeks ago, he strapped an air quality sensor called the Plume Labs Flow to his backpack to see how much he was exposed to along his bike rides. His fellow bike 

commuters are doing the same. 
"My fellow bike commuters and I like to run around and say I ran into an orange spot," Mr. Keogh said. 
Many early adopters of private air quality monitors are people who are deeply familiar with the government's pollution monitoring systems. 
"I tell my friends, 'You don't want to know what I know,"' said Joe Lyou, who sits on the South Coast Air Quality Management District Governing Board. "There's a lot of 

pollution." 
He installed a PurpleAir two years ago and is now gathering neighbors together to do the same. 
Mr. Lyou said he is concerned the Trump administration will try to hide air quality data after it has been collected. 
"I'm worried that they'll distort or spin the data in a way so that people are confused or misled. They'll bury it or make it confusing to understand," Mr. Lyou said. "It's already 

happening." 
And so for now, Mr. Lyou trusts the monitor in his backyard. 
"I'm downwind of two power plants, a refinery and next to a freeway," he said. "And I have a kid who's asthmatic." 
The sensor helps Mr. Lyou decide when it's safe for his son to play outside. 
Mark Dixon, a filmmaker in Pittsburgh, started a local PurpleAir movement after feeling sick on jogs. 
"I knew the air was bad because it stinks," Mr. Dixon said. "A foul industrial stench." 
He used an app called Smell PGH that tracks industrial odors. When he started reading about air quality enforcement, he realized that some factories around the town were still 

polluting above the legal limit. 
"I felt betrayed as a citizen," he said. "They're polluting at our doorsteps and we know it and we can see it and we can smell it, and now we can measure it." 
He has been building the network out this fall and hopes to use the data to push the government to crack down. Poor and minority communities are disproportionately affected 

by air pollution, and a revived environmental justice movement is rising. 
One home that Mr. Dixon outfitted with a PurpleAir this summer is across the river from Edgar Thomson Steelworks and near a coke refinery that emits a rotted sulfur smell. 
That's where Robin Kornides, 63, lives with her husband and makes her living selling sewn and knitted goods. 

One recent November afternoon, she stood on her front porch in a sweatshirt and gloves, taking a break from caring for a troupe of pet pigeons to talk about the gadget. 
But other days, she is not so lucky. 
"A third of the time it's bad enough that I don't want to go outside, but it mostly depends how the wind is blowing," Ms. Kornides said. On the worst days, she added, "It's like trying to breath Jell-O." 
That day there was a cool crisp east wind -- she thinks of it as the good wind. 
"It makes me feel justified to complain at least, and I'm a visual person, so I like seeing the color on the app," Ms. Kornides said. "But I can always smell it first, that coke smell." 

Photograph 
Clockwise from top: a man in Sacramento last month using a mask to protect himself from smoke from the Camp Fire; a PurpleAir monitor; and an Aeroqual personal air 
pollution detector. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICH PEDRONCELLI/ASSOCIATED PRESS); From above: an Atmotube Plus personal air pollution detector; an Awair air pollution monitor; 
and a Flow personal air pollution monitor from Plume Labs. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GETAWAIR.COM; MASAKI OKUMURA/PLUME LABS) 
Copyright New York Times Company Dec 2, 2018 

Subject 	Air pollution; 

Air cleanliness; 
Local government; 
Outdoor air quality; 
Environmental protection; 
Sensors 


Location 	United States--US 
URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/30/style/air-quality-pollution-monitors.html 
Title 	The American Citizen's Guide to Clean Air: [Style Desk] 
Author 	Bowles, Nellie 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	ST.8 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Dec 2, 2018 
Section 	ST 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	General Interest Periodicals--United States 
ISSN 	03624331 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	News 
ProQuest document ID 	2140437786 
Document URL 	https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2140437786?accountid=14902 
Copyright 	Copyright New York Times Company Dec 2, 2018 
Last updated 	2018-12-02 
Database Global Newsstream 
document 26 of 236 


Reality of Climate Change Undermines an Ambition for 'Energy Dominance': [National Desk] 
Friedman, Lisa.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]30 Nov 2018: A.10. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Reality+of+Climate+Change+Undermines+an+Ambition+for+%27Energy+Domi 11-30&volume=&issue=&spage=A.10&au=Friedman%2C+Lisa&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd: , our email newsletter. 
WASHINGTON -- It's been a defining phrase of the Donald Trump presidency, "Energy dominance," a doctrine that emphasizes the expansion of coal and oil production as well as the weakening of environmental regulations, including those that address climate change. 
But at every turn, according to a broad scientific report on climate change issued last week, rising global temperatures threaten to undermine the president's vision of an energy-dominant America. The blackouts and other energy disruptions of Hurricane Harvey were just harbingers, the report said. Across the United States, every element of the country's energy infrastructure, like oil wells and nuclear power plants, will be stressed by droughts, heat waves, rising seas and fiercer storms. 
"Climate change disrupts everything, including Trump's agenda," said Alice Hill, a research fellow at the conservative Hoover Institution think tank who served as senior director for resilience policy on the National Security Council under President Barack Obama. 
When it comes to fossil fuel production, the disruptions are particularly serious. And there's a fundamental irony at play. Even as emissions from the burning of fossil fuels are warming the planet, the consequences of that warming will make it harder to drill for oil, mine for coal and deliver fuel through pipelines. 
Mr. Trump wants to boost oil and gas drilling on public lands in the West, but drought is expected to affect the water necessary for hydraulic fracturing, the technique of injecting vast amounts of liquid into the bedrock to force out natural gas or oil. In the Arctic, where Mr. Trump has plans to open sensitive areas to oil drilling, equipment built to withstand Alaska's freezing temperatures is particularly vulnerable to permafrost melting as the state warms at twice the rate of the rest of the country. 
Coal-burning power plants are at risk as well. Rising temperatures from extreme heat events, the report notes, are expected to reduce their capacity to generate power and hamper the efficiency of the transmission grid. 
The national climate report, mandated by Congress and made public by the White House, makes the case that global warming "is transforming where and how we live and presents growing challenges to human health." Soon after publication, however, President Trump and several members of his cabinet disavowed it. "I don't believe it," Mr. Trump said of the findings. 
President Trump's call for energy dominance has been a central ambition of his administration. He hit on the slogan in the early days of his presidency, predicting a "golden era of American energy" that would be asserted via the country's booming natural gas, coal and petroleum exports. 
Cabinet officials have taken up the mantra. 
Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke in announcing last year a lease sale of nearly 80 million acres of federal waters off the Gulf of Mexico, described it as "a pillar of President Trump's plan to make the United States energy dominant." Energy Secretary Rick Perry has described energy dominance as "exporting freedom," particularly by delivering America's liquefied natural gas and developing offshore oil drilling. 
Even at the Environmental Protection Agency, where the core mission is to ensure clean air and water, Andrew Wheeler, the acting administrator, has heralded ways he and his staff have advanced the president's energy dominance agenda by saving polluting industries billions of dollars in regulatory costs. 
The findings from the National Climate Assessment, issued by 13 federal agencies, come as the new House Democratic majority prepares to conduct oversight next year into Mr. Trump's rollbacks of federal climate change policies. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, who is expected to chair the House Science Committee, is part of a group of lawmakers planning two days of hearings in January into ways to both reduce planet-warming emissions and prepare for the consequences of rising temperatures. 
"Our rapidly changing climate, and the Trump administration's efforts to take us in the wrong direction, seriously jeopardize our future," Ms. Johnson said. 
Energy infrastructure is an expensive part of the problem, according to the assessment. The report does not provide firm estimates of expected costs. It does cite the fact that Hurricane Sandy in 2012, which resulted in gasoline lines stretching for miles, inoperable refineries and electricity outages affecting 8.7 million people, prodded utility companies in New York and New Jersey to invest billions of dollars in upgrades like elevating equipment and redesigning electrical networks to withstand extreme weather. 
The report notes that Con Edison and Public Service Electric and Gas have invested about $2 billion in repairs in response to recent hurricanes. It also points out that the costs to reconstruct Puerto Rico's electricity systems in the wake of Hurricanes Irma and Maria are estimated around $17 billion. 
And while the report notes that energy companies and utilities are increasingly taking steps to harden their infrastructure -- like planning for sea-level rise when building infrastructure -- experts said the federal government needs to do more. 
"When you lose access to energy, your entire economy grinds to a halt," said Jason Bordoff, director of the Center on Global Energy Policy at Columbia University and a former White House energy adviser to President Obama during Hurricane Sandy. 
"The report lays out clearly the extent to which so many aspects of the nation's critical infrastructure are at risk from climate change," Mr. Bordoff said. 
Energy systems in the Southeast are particularly vulnerable, the report said, with some 200 power plants and oil refineries exposed to flooding from hurricanes and fiercer storm surges. Scientists estimate, if sea levels rise nationally 3.3 feet (a figure it describes as on the "high end of the very likely range" for what the country could see by 2100), it could expose dozens of power plants currently considered to be in safe zones to risks of 100-year floods. That would jeopardize about 25 gigawatts of operating power capacity, or power for about 18 million homes. 
Along the Gulf Coast -- home to a significant proportion of the United States oil production and refining industry -- energy infrastructure faces a similar and more immediate risk. A sea level rise of less than 1.6 feet could double the number of refineries in Texas and Louisiana vulnerable to flooding by the end of the century. 
Yet energy analysts cautioned against expectations that the effects of climate change will cause irreparable harm to the fossil fuel industry or make oil, gas and coal production fundamentally unattractive to investors. Sarah Ladislaw, an energy analyst at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, noted that the oil and gas sector has a long history of managing risks, including figuring out how to operate in politically unstable countries and prodding governments to loosen regulations they find too burdensome. 
Climate change will add "headwinds" to fossil fuel companies, make production more costly in some areas and less competitive in others, Ms. Ladislaw said. But, she added, "If you're waiting for climate impacts to be the end of the oil and gas industry, that's not going to happen." 
For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. 
Copyright New York Times Company Nov 30, 2018 
Subject 	Petroleum production; 
Petroleum refineries; 

Floods; 

Presidents; 
Environmental policy; 
Energy industry; 

Industrial plant emissions; 

Climate change; 
Nuclear power plants; 

Natural gas; 
Nuclear energy; 

Hurricanes; 
Fossil fuels; 
Infrastructure; 

Drilling; 

Coal 


Location 	Arctic region; Alaska; Louisiana; New Jersey; Puerto Rico; Gulf of Mexico; Texas; 

United States--US; New York 


People 	Trump, Donald J; Zinke, Ryan; Perry, Rick; Obama, Barack; Wheeler, Andrew; Bordoff, Jason; 

Johnson, Eddie Bernice 


Company / organization 	Name: National Security Council 

NAICS: 928110; 

Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA NAICS: 924110; 
Name: House of Representatives-Science & Technology, Committee on NAICS: 921120; 
Name: Hoover Institution on War Revolution & Peace NAICS: 541720; 
Name: Columbia University NAICS: 611310; 
Name: Consolidated Edison Inc NAICS: 221122, 221210; 
Name: Twitter Inc NAICS: 519130; 
Name: Congress NAICS: 921120 
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/29/climate/trump-energy-dominance.html  
Title  Reality of Climate Change Undermines an Ambition for 'Energy Dominance': [National Desk]  
Author  Friedman, Lisa  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.10  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Nov 30, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2139437631  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2139437631?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Nov 30, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-30  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 27 of 236 


Here to Help; One Thing You Can Do for the Environment: Hang on to Your Phone: [Science Desk] 
Friedman, Lisa; Rosen, Julia; Plumer, Brad.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]30 Nov 2018: A.3. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Here+to+Help%3B+One+Thing+You+Can+Do+for+the+Environment%3A+Hang 11­30&volume=&issue=&spage=A.3&au=Friedman%2C+Lisa%3BRosen%2C+Julia%3BPlumer%2C+Brad&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Welcome to the Climate Fwd: newsletter. The New York Times climate team emails readers once a week with stories and insights about climate change. Sign up here to get it in 
your inbox. 
By Lisa Friedman 

So, did anything big happen in the world of climate change over Thanksgiving weekend? 
In a word, yes. Here on the climate team we were of course all over the Black Friday publication of the National Climate Assessment, the federally mandated report prepared by 
the nation's top climate scientists every four years about global warming in the United States. 

As my colleague Coral Davenport reported, the timing of the release was no accident. The Trump administration hoped to bury the assessment's grim findings in the Thanksgiving weekend news cycle leftovers and avoid having to respond to its major conclusion: that unchecked rising temperatures will cost the American economy hundreds of billions of dollars by the end of the century. 
President Trump, asked about the report's core findings, said, "I don't believe it." 
That's likely because it conflicts with his oft stated yet scientifically erroneous worldview that climate change may or may not be occurring and may or may not be caused by 
humans. It also collides with the president's policy objectives of promoting fossil fuels, particularly coal. 
Coral and I also detailed how Mr. Trump's energy policies are virtually ensuring that planet-warming emissions will rise despite the known risks to the planet and the economy. 
Brad Plumer and Henry Fountain summarized other key parts of the report, including the ways in which climate change could cause political instability abroad, as well as how 

rising greenhouse gas emissions will also worsen air quality. 

Global warming has already resulted in more forest fires out West, the report says, and the future could see more of the country burn. Kendra Pierre-Louis and Nadja Popovich 
took a look at the data. 
And Brad takes a deep dive into how the United States is, and is not, prepared to adapt to the consequences of climate change. 
Finally, Somini Sengupta gets at the central question around coal: Why is it so hard to quit? Coal, Somini writes, "is a powerful incumbent." She traces its grip on politics from 

South Asia to Australia to the United States. 
There's a lot more still to unpack from the 1,656-page assessment, so keep watching this space as we continue to report on this important story. 

One thing you can do: Hang onto your phone 
By Julia Rosen 
Every year, smartphone makers unveil their newest models, faster and sleeker than the dinged-up devices in our pockets. Building-size ads tempt us to buy a new phone for loved ones this holiday season, or to take advantage of upgrades for ourselves. 
But you might want to think twice before replacing your phone, because the devices that support our virtual lives have a surprisingly large environmental impact in the real world. 
The problem isn't the power needed to charge and use the phone -- although that can add up -- but rather, the tremendous energy needed to mine 60-plus metals and assemble them into a new device. A 2015 study found that producing an iPhone 6 released the equivalent of 178 pounds of carbon dioxide, about as much as burning nine gallons of gas or running a modern refrigerator for a year. 
What's more, the average person hangs onto a phone for only two years. "This is not driven by the fact that these smartphones become obsolete in functionality," said Lotfi Belkhir, an entrepreneur and engineering professor at McMaster University in Hamilton, Ontario. It's because of a business model that promotes frequent upgrades while masking the true financial and environmental costs of phones, he said. 
This short lifetime, combined with the rapid spread of smartphones worldwide, is set to drive a 730 percent increase in their carbon footprint between 2010 and 2020, Dr. Belkhir's research found. 
Hanging onto your phone for as long as possible can help. Extend your phone's life by fixing it when things break, cleaning the charging port and swapping out dying batteries. If you must replace your phone, recycle your old device and consider buying a used one. 
Purchasing fewer new phones will send a powerful message to industry that it needs to change, Dr. Belkhir said. "The amount of resources we are digging out of the earth to make new cellphones only to have them wasted at the end of their shelf life is simply not sustainable," he said. 
Here's one more thing you can do: Write for this newsletter! We're asking you, our readers, to contribute to our "One Thing You Can Do" series. Send your full submission, around 250 words, to onething@nytimes.com ; it could be published here. You can still meet our first-round deadline: Dec. 1. 
How solar panels got so cheap 
By Brad Plumer 
It will be a lot easier to tackle climate change if the world can figure out how to make various clean energy technologies -- like carbon dioxide removal or electric vehicles -­much, much cheaper. But what's the best way to do that? 
That's a question that three researchers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology recently explored in a fascinating study on solar panels. Solar power, after all, has become remarkably cheaper in recent decades: Between 1975 and 2015, the cost of photovoltaic solar modules declined by roughly 99 percent. 
The researchers found that there hadn't been a single big breakthrough that made solar panels cheaper. Instead, a dizzying array of small improvements added up over time. 
Scientists in labs were steadily able to boost the efficiency of the panels themselves. But manufacturers also found ways to use less silicon per panel by improving production techniques. And solar factories got progressively larger and were able to cut costs through automation and better quality control. 
What helped make this possible, the researchers found, were policies in countries like Japan and Germany, and later the United States and China, to install a bunch of solar power when it was still relatively pricey. These countries didn't just wait around for someone to invent a dirt-cheap solar panel, they subsidized deployment early on. Costs then fell as production ramped up and manufacturers got bigger and more skilled. 
The researchers concluded that these "market-stimulating" policies, such as tax credits or mandates for renewable energy, helped drive about 60 percent of the decline in solar costs, in part by spurring private investment. Publicly funded research also played a crucial role, especially in the early years. 
One lesson here? If countries want cheaper new sources of clean energy, they should continue funding early-stage research and development. But just as importantly, they also need to take technologies that are close to commercialization and help create larger markets for them, which can push down prices. 
Jessika E. Trancik, a co-author of the study, said her team at M.I.T. was hoping to conduct similar analyses of other low-carbon technologies, like nuclear power, to better understand the most effective mix of policies for cutting costs. "We can cut emissions more quickly if we're strategic about how we design energy policies and invest in R&D," Dr. Trancik said. "And one way to do that is to learn from past successes and figure out exactly why they happened." 
Bonus: Ask a climate scientist 
The climate scientist Kate Marvel is answering your questions about understanding climate change, how we're affecting our planet and actions you can take to help protect the earth. 
Ask her a question here, and see the answers she's provided so far. 
We'd love your feedback on this newsletter. Please email thoughts and suggestions to climateteam@nytimes.com . 
If you like what we're doing, please spread the word and send this to your friends. You can sign up here to get our newsletter delivered to your inbox each week. 
And be sure to check out our full assortment of free newsletters from The Times. 
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 
Illustration 
DRAWING (DRAWING BY TYLER VARSELL) Copyright New York Times Company Nov 30, 2018 
Subject 	Solar energy; 
Emissions; 

Power; 

Clean technology; 

Carbon; 
Newsletters; 
Smartphones; 

Researchers; 

Research & development--R&D; 
Cost reduction; 

Climate change; 
Coal 


Location 	United States--US; New York; Massachusetts; Germany; South Asia; Australia; China; Japan 
People  Trump, Donald J; Sengupta, Somini  
Company / organization  Name: New York Times Co  
NAICS: 511110, 511120, 515112, 515120;  
Name: Massachusetts Institute of Technology  
NAICS: 611310;  
Name: McMaster University  
NAICS: 611310  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/28/climate/climate-fwd-smartphones-solar.html  
Title  Here to Help; One Thing You Can Do for the Environment: Hang on to Your Phone: [Science  
Desk]  
Author  Friedman, Lisa; Rosen, Julia; Plumer, Brad  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.3  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Nov 30, 2018  
column  Climate Fwd:  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2139436994  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2139436994?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Nov 30, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-30  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 28 of 236 



Warning of Cascading Health Risks From the Rapidly Changing Climate: [National Desk] 
Sengupta, Somini; Pierre-Louis, Kendra.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]29 Nov 2018: A.18. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Warning+of+Cascading+Health+Risks+From+the+Rapidly+Changing+Climate% 11-29&volume=&issue=&spage=A.18&au=Sengupta%2C+Somini%3BPierre-Louis%2C+Kendra&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd: , our email newsletter. 
Crop yields are declining. Tropical diseases like dengue fever are showing up in unfamiliar places, including in the United States. Tens of millions of people are exposed to extreme heat. These are the stark findings of a wide-ranging scientific report that lays out the growing risks of climate change for human health and predicts that cascading hazards could 
soon face millions more people in rich and poor countries around the world. 
The report, published Wednesday in the public health journal The Lancet, incorporates the work of 24 academic institutions and United Nations agencies and follows a major 

climate assessment issued last week by the United States government. The two studies represent the most serious warnings to date that climate change is posing a series of 
interconnected health risks for the global population. 
"We don't see these health impacts individually," said Kristie L. Ebi, a professor of global health at the University of Washington and one of the authors of the Lancet study. "We 

see them jointly. We see them coming at communities all at the same time." 

Among the biggest threats humans face in a warming climate is heat stress, which not only kills people directly but can also lead to kidney and cardiovascular disease, the 
report noted. Higher temperatures can also diminish people's ability to work, particularly in agriculture, leading to tens of billions of hours of lost labor capacity each year. 
Most worrying, according to the authors, is the compounding effect of extreme weather events that are exacerbated by climate change. Heat waves, floods and storms can 

batter the very public health systems that are meant to help people, the report says. A failure to rein in emissions, it warns, could lead to disasters that "disrupt core public 

health infrastructure and overwhelm health services." 
The American report, called the National Climate Assessment, says that extreme rainfall could overwhelm the nation's ailing water and sewer systems, contributing to shortages 
of drinkable water and increasing exposure to gastrointestinal disease. In some parts of the country, like Florida and Texas, higher temperatures will be a boon to a type of 
mosquito that transmits the viruses that cause dengue, Zika, chikungunya and yellow fever. 

Echoing these warnings on Wednesday, the United Nations Secretary General, António Guterres, urged world leaders to swiftly curb greenhouse gas emissions as they had promised under the Paris climate accord three years ago. Nine out of 10 people breathe unsafe air, according to the World Health Organization, Mr. Guterres said. "Meeting the Paris Agreement commitments could save more than a million lives a year," he said. 
Cutting emissions from sources like coal-fired power plants and diesel-burning trucks would also result in enormous savings to public health systems, the Lancet authors said. 
"Doing that now would be good for us, it would be good for our livelihoods and would be good for the planet," Dr. Ebi said. 
But as the world continues to warm, the study warned of a number of potential domino effects. 
Extreme heat 

In 2017, 157 million more people were exposed to heat-related health risks than in 2000, the report said. And that was before the scorching summer of 2018. 
In England and Wales, for instance, over a 15-day period of exceptionally high temperatures this summer, there were 700 "excess deaths" compared to a comparable period in 
previous years, said Nick Watts, the report's lead author. 

Some of the most vulnerable people are in relatively prosperous countries in Europe and the Eastern Mediterranean region, particularly because these places have large 

populations of older people living in cities. In both regions, more than 40 percent of people over the age of 65 were found to be at risk. 
In the United States, the National Climate Assessment found that some of the largest increases in heat-related mortality in future years would occur in the Northeast. By 
midcentury, there could be 50 to 100 excess deaths per one million people due to heat in that region, the report said. 

Lost labor 
Heat makes it hard for people to work, especially on farms. 

According to the Lancet report, in 2017, 153 billion hours of labor were lost worldwide because of heat, with the largest share in vulnerable rural communities in countries like India. That's 64 billion more lost labor hours than in 2000. 
By midcentury, "Prevalence of heatstroke and extreme weather will have redefined global labor and production beyond recognition," The Lancet warned in an accompanying editorial. "Multiple cities will be uninhabitable and migration patterns will be far beyond those levels already creating pressure worldwide." 
Infectious diseases 
The risk of debilitating, often deadly infectious diseases is moving to new places. That's because even small changes in temperature and rainfall can have a significant effect on where diseases that are spread by bugs and water can take hold. 
Habitats for dengue-spreading mosquitoes have expanded significantly, the Lancet study concluded. The National Climate Assessment noted that warmer conditions may have helped transmit Zika in the United States. 
Since 1950, the Lancet study said, the cholera bacteria has expanded its reach to the Baltic coastline, and the risk of malaria has spread to higher altitudes in sub-Saharan Africa. 
"I don't want people to be surprised when they see cases of what used to be tropical diseases now being found in the United States as a result of changing climate," said Gina McCarthy, a professor of public health at Harvard and a former administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency during the Obama administration. 
Droughts and floods 
Extreme droughts and floods are affecting already vulnerable communities, particularly in Southeast Asia and South America. Drought affects agricultural yields, in turn heightening the risk of early death, hunger and childhood malnutrition, according to the Lancet report. 
With drought often comes more dust, which can aggravate allergies and asthma and can also accelerate the reproduction of disease-causing fungi in soil, according to the National Climate Assessment. Floods can wash away farmland and homes and spread waterborne diseases. 
Food production 
Though the world still produces more than enough food to feed itself, rising temperatures and extreme weather events are affecting food production. Crop yields are diminishing in 30 countries, reversing a trend of rising agricultural productivity and threatening food security around the world and in the United States. 
The quality of some food itself is also expected to decline, according to the National Climate Assessment. Rising levels of carbon dioxide will reduce the presence of key nutrients -- including iron, zinc, and protein -- in crops and seafood. 
For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. 
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 
Copyright New York Times Company Nov 29, 2018 
Subject 	Agricultural production; 

Emissions; 

Climate change; 
Tropical diseases; 

Waterborne diseases 


Location 	Southeast Asia; Texas; United States--US; India; Wales; South America; England; Africa; 

Florida; Europe 


People 	McCarthy, Gina 
Company / organization 	Name: United Nations--UN 

NAICS: 928120; 

Name: Twitter Inc NAICS: 519130; 
Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA NAICS: 924110; 
Name: University of Washington NAICS: 611310; 
Name: World Health Organization NAICS: 923120 
URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/28/climate/climate-change-health.html 
Title 	Warning of Cascading Health Risks From the Rapidly Changing Climate: [National Desk] 
Author  Sengupta, Somini; Pierre-Louis, Kendra  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.18  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Nov 29, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2138968980  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2138968980?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Nov 29, 2018  
Last updated  2018-12-14  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 29 of 236 


Brazil Backs Out of Holding Climate Change Meeting for U.N.: [Foreign Desk] 
Londoño, Ernesto; Friedman, Lisa.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]29 Nov 2018: A.4. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Brazil+Backs+Out+of+Holding+Climate+Change+Meeting+for+U.N.%3A+%5BF 11-29&volume=&issue=&spage=A.4&au=Londo%C3%B1o%2C+Ernesto%3BFriedman%2C+Lisa&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
RIO DE JANEIRO -- Brazil this week pulled out of hosting next year's United Nations global summit meeting on climate change, the latest signal that Latin America's largest nation no longer aspires to be an influential player in efforts to mitigate the effects of a warming planet. 
The decision leaves the United Nations scrambling to find a new venue for the conference, which was scheduled to take place next November. It comes about a month before the inauguration of president-elect Jair Bolsonaro, who has vowed to empower commercial ventures in the Amazon and other Brazilian biomes while weakening enforcement of environmental laws. 
Mr. Bolsonaro's incoming foreign minister, Ernesto Araújo, a career diplomat, has called the movement to reduce global warming a plot by "Marxists" to stifle the economic growth of capitalist democracies while lifting China. 
Brazil in 2009 set ambitious goals to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases and took drastic steps to rein in deforestation in the Amazon. Those initiatives were met with international acclaim and positioned Brazil as one of the most consequential and engaged nations in the effort to reduce climate change. 
In a statement, Brazil's foreign ministry said this week's decision was made to save money. It also cited the "transition process" as Mr. Bolsonaro prepares to take office. 
Diplomats, environmentalists and others who follow the United Nations climate negotiations said the move threatens to mar Brazil's' reputation as a leading actor on environmental issues and sustainable development. 
Brazil hosted the Earth Summit in 1992 that gave rise to the United Nations climate convention, and the country has been actively engaged in brokering compromises between rich and poor nations grappling over how to take responsibility for lowering greenhouse gas emissions. 
"The image of Brazil is at risk," said Carlos Rittl, executive secretary of the Brazilian Climate Observatory, an environmental group. "Climate and the environment are the only issues where Brazil is a leader in global terms. We are not leaders in world trade, we are not leaders in a geopolitical sense on security issues. But on climate and environment we are leaders, and we are giving that up." 
In recent years, Brazil's standing as an environmental exemplar has eroded as farmers, miners and cattle ranchers have razed large areas of forest cover in the Amazon, with only occasional push back from the agencies tasked with enforcing environmental laws and regulations. 
As a result, deforestation in the Amazon is now once again on the rise. Between August 2017 and July of this year, deforestation in the Amazon rose by nearly 14 percent, according to figures the Brazilian government released last week. That represented the highest loss of forest cover in the Amazon, the world's largest tropical rain forest, in a decade. 
Guy Edwards, a Latin America expert and co-director of the Climate and Development Lab at Brown University, said Brazil's decision to back out of hosting the summit is unwise in economic terms, since it would mean the country would forgo any investment, business deals and cooperation agreements to advance low carbon growth at the time when Brazil needs an economic boost. 
"The irony of the incoming Bolsonaro administration's decision to cancel the conference is that it will forgo the potentially hefty levels of investment and any number of business deals and cooperation agreements to advance low carbon growth just at the time that Brazil needs an economic boost," he said. 
Manuel Pulgar-Vidal, the former environment minister of Peru, called Brazil's decision "a bit sad," and added that it also creates a logistical hurdle for next year's climate change discussions. 
Under the United Nations system, a country from Latin America is supposed to host the summit in 2019. Brazil was the only country in the region to volunteer for the task, which can cost a country as much as $100 million. 
Other countries in the region still have time to step in, but it is unclear which might do so. Argentina has held climate summits in the past, but it is hosting this week's Group of 20 talks and may not want to incur another large expense. Mr. Pulgar-Vidal said it is unlikely that Peru, which spent $72 million to host a climate summit in 2014, would do it again. 
"This now puts Latin America in a difficult situation," Mr. Pulgar-Vidal said. 
Alexander Saier, the spokesman for the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, said in a statement that if no countries from Latin America offer to host in 2019, then the conference will be held at the seat of the climate secretariat in Bonn, Germany. 
That decision, he said, will be made by the end of next month. 
Brazil's decision not to host comes days after the release of a United States government report issued by 13 agencies warning that failing to take significant measures to slow down climate change would do tremendous damage to the American economy. 
The issue will be on the agenda of the G-20 gathering in Buenos Aires this week, where the World Bank, the United Nations and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development will be calling on the leaders of the world's largest economies to lower carbon emissions and overhaul infrastructure development to mitigate the impact of climate change. 
Brazil is the latest major influencer on climate change policy to take a radical shift on the issue. 
President Trump has said he does not accept the established scientific consensus that climate change is occurring and is primarily the result of human activity. Last year he said he would withdraw the United States from the Paris Agreement, a 2016 compromise agreed to by nearly 200 nations to voluntarily cut planet-warming emissions and keep rising temperatures to below a 2-degree Celsius rise over preindustrial levels. 
Australia's new prime minister, Scott Morrison, also threatened to pull out of the Paris Agreement. His conservative government has since said it will honor its pledges, but the country's energy policy contains no plans for curbing emissions. 
And Poland, which will host climate change talks next month, has invited coal companies to be partners in discussions on how to ratchet down fossil fuel emissions. 
Credit: ERNESTO LONDOÑO and LISA FRIEDMAN; Ernesto Londoño reported from Rio de Janeiro, and Lisa Friedman from New York. 
Photograph 
The Brazilian Amazon, where deforestation is on the rise, in May. The nation's president-elect has vowed to empower commercial ventures in the Amazon. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FELIPE WERNECK/IBAMA, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) Copyright New York Times Company Nov 29, 2018 
Subject 	Emissions; 

Greenhouse effect; 
Climate change; 
Deforestation 


Location 	United States--US; New York; Germany; Latin America; Peru; Australia; China; Argentina; 

Poland; Brazil; Rio de Janeiro Brazil 


People 	Trump, Donald J; Bolsonaro, Jair 
Company / organization 	Name: United Nations--UN 

NAICS: 928120; 

Name: International Bank for Reconstruction & Development--World Bank NAICS: 928120; 
Name: Group of Twenty NAICS: 926110; 
Name: Brown University NAICS: 611310; 
Name: United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change NAICS: 928120 
URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/28/world/americas/brazil-climate-meeting.html 
Title 	Brazil Backs Out of Holding Climate Change Meeting for U.N.: [Foreign Desk] 
Author 	Londoño, Ernesto; Friedman, Lisa 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.4 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Nov 29, 2018 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2138968948  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2138968948?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Nov 29, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-29  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 30 of 236 



The Depravity of Climate-Change Denial: [Op-Ed] 
Krugman, Paul.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]27 Nov 2018: A.22. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=The+Depravity+of+Climate-Change+Denial%3A+%5BOp­Ed%5D&title=New+York+Times&issn=03624331&date=2018-11­27&volume=&issue=&spage=A.22&au=Krugman%2C+Paul&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
The Trump administration is, it goes without saying, deeply anti-science. In fact, it's anti-objective reality. But its control of the government remains limited; it didn't extend far enough to prevent the release of the latest National Climate Assessment, which details current and expected future impacts of global warming on the United States. 
True, the report was released on Black Friday, clearly in the hope that it would get lost in the shuffle. The good news is that the ploy didn't work. 
The assessment basically confirms, with a great deal of additional detail, what anyone following climate science already knew: Climate change poses a major threat to the nation, and some of its adverse effects are already being felt. For example, the report, written before the latest California disaster, highlights the growing risks of wildfire in the Southwest; global warming, not failure to rake the leaves, is why the fires are getting ever bigger and more dangerous. 
But the Trump administration and its allies in Congress will, of course, ignore this analysis. Denying climate change, no matter what the evidence, has become a core Republican principle. And it's worth trying to understand both how that happened and the sheer depravity involved in being a denialist at this point. 
Wait, isn't depravity too strong a term? Aren't people allowed to disagree with conventional wisdom, even if that wisdom is supported by overwhelming scientific consensus? 
Yes, they are -- as long as their arguments are made in good faith. But there are almost no good-faith climate-change deniers. And denying science for profit, political advantage or ego satisfaction is not O.K.; when failure to act on the science may have terrible consequences, denial is, as I said, depraved. 
The best recent book I've read on all this is "The Madhouse Effect" by Michael E. Mann, a leading climate scientist, with cartoons by Tom Toles. As Mann explains, climate denial actually follows in the footsteps of earlier science denial, beginning with the long campaign by tobacco companies to confuse the public about the dangers of smoking. 
The shocking truth is that by the 1950s, these companies already knew that smoking caused lung cancer; but they spent large sums propping up the appearance that there was a real controversy about this link. In other words, they were aware that their product was killing people, but they tried to keep the public from understanding this fact so they could keep earning profits. That qualifies as depravity, doesn't it? 
In many ways, climate denialism resembles cancer denialism. Businesses with a financial interest in confusing the public -- in this case, fossil-fuel companies -- are prime movers. As far as I can tell, every one of the handful of well-known scientists who have expressed climate skepticism has received large sums of money from these companies or from dark money conduits like DonorsTrust -- the same conduit, as it happens, that supported Matthew Whitaker, the new acting attorney general, before he joined the Trump administration. 
But climate denial has sunk deeper political roots than cancer denial ever did. In practice, you can't be a modern Republican in good standing unless you deny the reality of global warming, assert that it has natural causes or insist that nothing can be done about it without destroying the economy. You also have to either accept or acquiesce in wild claims that the overwhelming evidence for climate change is a hoax, that it has been fabricated by a vast global conspiracy of scientists. 
Why would anyone go along with such things? Money is still the main answer: Almost all prominent climate deniers are on the fossil-fuel take. However, ideology is also a factor: If you take environmental issues seriously, you are led to the need for government regulation of some kind, so rigid free-market ideologues don't want to believe that environmental concerns are real (although apparently forcing consumers to subsidize coal is fine). 
Finally, I have the impression that there's an element of tough-guy posturing involved -- real men don't use renewable energy, or something. 
And these motives matter. If important players opposed climate action out of good-faith disagreement with the science, that would be a shame but not a sin, calling for better efforts at persuasion. As it is, however, climate denial is rooted in greed, opportunism, and ego. And opposing action for those reasons is a sin. 
Indeed, it's depravity, on a scale that makes cancer denial seem trivial. Smoking kills people, and tobacco companies that tried to confuse the public about that reality were being evil. But climate change isn't just killing people; it may well kill civilization. Trying to confuse the public about that is evil on a whole different level. Don't some of these people have children? 
And let's be clear: While Donald Trump is a prime example of the depravity of climate denial, this is an issue on which his whole party went over to the dark side years ago. Republicans don't just have bad ideas; at this point, they are, necessarily, bad people. 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram , and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter . 
Copyright New York Times Company Nov 27, 2018 
Subject  Cancer;  
Smoking;  
Science;  
Political campaigns;  
Global warming;  
Climate change  
Location  United States--US  
People  Trump, Donald J; Whitaker, Matthew  
Company / organization  Name: Republican Party  
NAICS: 813940  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/26/opinion/climate-change-denial-republican.html  
Title  The Depravity of Climate-Change Denial: [Op-Ed]  
Author  Krugman, Paul  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.22  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Nov 27, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  2137742880  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2137742880?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Nov 27, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-27  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 31 of 236 


From Very Beginning, Broad Effort to Loosen The Rules on Pollution: [National Desk] 
Davenport, Coral; Friedman, Lisa.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]27 Nov 2018: A.12. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=From+Very+Beginning%2C+Broad+Effort+to+Loosen+The+Rules+on+Pollution 11-27&volume=&issue=&spage=A.12&au=Davenport%2C+Coral%3BFriedman%2C+Lisa&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd: , our email newsletter. 
WASHINGTON -- President Trump had a clear message Monday when asked about the core conclusion of a scientific report issued by his own administration: that climate change will batter the nation's economy. "I don't believe it," he said. 
Mr. Trump then laid responsibility for cleaning the atmosphere on other countries like China and Japan: "Right now we're at the cleanest we've ever been, and that's very important to me. But if we're clean but every other place on Earth is dirty, that's not so good. So I want clean air. I want clean water. Very important." 
The remarks fit a pattern, and not just for their bluntness. In almost two years since taking office, Mr. Trump has denied the scientific reality of climate change and taken aggressive steps that will increase emissions of heat-trapping greenhouse gases -- despite unequivocal scientific evidence that those pollutants are warming the planet to dangerous levels. 
"Since virtually the first day the administration came into office they have systematically worked to reverse policies in place to reduce greenhouse gas emissions," said Robert N. Stavins, a professor of environmental economics at Harvard. "But this report, which is mandated by law, shows that greenhouse gas emissions are going to have profound effects on the United States in this century." 
The report Mr. Trump referred to, the National Climate Assessment, issued on Friday, was the product of four years of work by 13 federal agencies. It concluded that "Earth's climate is now changing faster than at any point in the history of modern civilization, primarily as a result of human activities," and adds, "the severity of future impacts will depend largely on actions taken to reduce greenhouse gas emissions." 
Those impacts include more devastating wildfires, severe storms and coastal flooding, droughts, crop failures, water shortages, threats to public health and the loss of hundreds of billions of dollars to the American economy, according to the authors. 
But in his disregard for scientific evidence, Mr. Trump has made the dismantling of policies to curb greenhouse pollution a centerpiece of his deregulatory agenda. 
The most direct way the Trump administration is working to allow more greenhouse gas emissions is by weakening the Obama-era regulations meant to reduce pollution at its source: the smokestacks of power plants and tailpipes of automobiles. 
A 'calculated effort' on coal 
In 2015 the Obama administration put forward its signature climate measure, the Clean Power Plan, designed to cut greenhouse pollution from power plants 32 percent below 2005 levels by 2030. That would be the equivalent of preventing more than 365 million metric tons of carbon dioxide from entering the atmosphere. 
By contrast, the Trump administration's replacement unveiled in August, known as the Affordable Clean Energy rule, sets no national benchmark. It aims to cut carbon dioxide emissions from 2005 levels by 0.7 to 1.5 percent by 2030. 
According to estimates by environmental groups, that means the amount of carbon dioxide emitted from American power plants over the next decade could be up to 12 times higher than it would have been under the Obama-era plan. 
"These are life-extension projects for coal plants," said Jody Freeman, a Harvard law professor and former counsel to the Obama administration. "It's a very calculated effort to go in the opposite direction from what's needed." 
The 'exact opposite signal' on car emissions 
In 2012, the Obama administration put forth a major regulation on planet-warming pollution from vehicle tailpipes, requiring automakers to nearly double the fuel economy of passenger vehicles to an average of about 54 miles per gallon by 2025. 
If fully implemented, the plan would have cut about six billion tons of greenhouse gas pollution over its lifetime, the equivalent of roughly a year's worth of greenhouse pollution for the entire country. 
In August, the Trump administration published a proposal designed to drastically weaken that rule, freezing average fuel economy standards after 2021 at about 37 miles per gallon. While that rollback is not yet final, early analysis shows that it could lead to the increase of up to a billion tons of greenhouse gas pollution from 2012 levels. 
"They were a big deal because vehicle travel is one of the biggest sources of greenhouse gas emissions," said David G. Victor, director of the Laboratory on International Law 

and Regulation at the University of California, San Diego, of the Obama-era tailpipe rules. 
"And they sent a long-term signal to Detroit that they need to make vehicles that produce fewer emissions," Dr. Victor said. "Attempting to loosen them has sent the exact 
opposite signal to Detroit." 

More methane in the atmosphere 

The Trump administration isn't only loosening Obama-era efforts to curb carbon dioxide emissions. It has also taken multiple steps to make it easier for oil and gas companies to 
release methane into the atmosphere. 
Methane is a potent greenhouse gas -- about 25 times more powerful than carbon dioxide in its ability to trap heat in the atmosphere. It is emitted from landfills and coal-fired 

power plants, burned as part of oil drilling operations and routinely leaked into the atmosphere from faulty oil and gas wells. 

Under Mr. Trump, both the E.P.A. and the Interior Department have proposed weakening Obama-era requirements that companies repair and monitor methane leaks in wells. 
New rules under consideration would also loosen restrictions on "flaring," the burning of methane from drilling operations. 
The Obama administration had estimated its steps to regulate methane would prevent the equivalent of 11 million tons of carbon dioxide from entering the atmosphere by 

2025. 
Experts say a rise in methane emissions is an inevitable consequence of Mr. Trump's rollbacks. 
"I don't think there's any question that dumping the venting-and-flaring rule is causing increases in emissions," said David J. Hayes, a former deputy secretary of the interior 

during the Clinton and Obama administrations. 
A global leadership void 
Finally, there is the Trump administration's vow to withdraw from the Paris Agreement, a voluntary accord under which nearly every country in the world has agreed to reduce 

emissions. 

President Barack Obama pledged the United States would cut carbon at least 26 percent below 2005 levels by 2025. The Trump administration cannot formally withdraw from 
the Paris pact for two more years, but in rolling back key climate regulations it has effectively stopped all efforts to meet that goal. 
But the United States' role in the Paris Agreement was never just about driving down America's own emissions. It was also about using its leadership to prod major developing 

countries like China, India and Brazil to also reduce their emissions despite still climbing out of poverty. Those countries, under United Nations rules agreed to by the United 

States in the 1990s, also are not legally obligated to cut carbon because of their status as developing nations. 
"When the U.S. is not taking action on climate it makes it incredibly difficult for countries with lesser means than ours to take action themselves," said Richard G. Newell, 
president of Resources for the Future, a nonpartisan Washington-based research organization. 

Already Mr. Trump's actions seem to be reverberating in rich and poor countries alike. Australia's prime minister, Scott Morrison, has threatened to pull out of the Paris 
Agreement. His conservative government has since said it will honor its pledges, but the country's energy policy contains no plans for curbing emissions. 
In Brazil, the far-right populist President-elect Jair Bolsonaro campaigned on a vow of pulling out of the Paris Agreement. 

China, on the other hand, has worked to position itself as the new leader on climate change. 
Countries will meet in December in Katowice, the heart of Poland's coal country, to finalize a set of rules for implementing the Paris Agreement. The United States will attend the 
talks and, despite the intended rollbacks, is expected to push other countries to be more transparent about their own plans for cutting emissions. 

For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. Copyright New York Times Company Nov 27, 2018 
Subject 	Emissions; 

Energy efficiency; 
Greenhouse effect; 
Climate change 


Location 	United States--US; India; Detroit Michigan; Australia; China; California; Poland; Brazil; Japan 
People 	Trump, Donald J; Bolsonaro, Jair; Obama, Barack 
Company / organization 	Name: United Nations--UN 

NAICS: 928120; 

Name: Twitter Inc NAICS: 519130 
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/26/climate/trump-greenhouse-gas-emissions.html  
Title  From Very Beginning, Broad Effort to Loosen The Rules on Pollution: [National Desk]  
Author  Davenport, Coral; Friedman, Lisa  

Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.12  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Nov 27, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2137741845  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2137741845?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Nov 27, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-27  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 32 of 236 


Is Exxon Conning Its Investors?: [Editorial] 
New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]26 Nov 2018: A.22. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Is+Exxon+Conning+Its+Investors%3F%3A+%5BEditorial%5D&title=New+Yo 11-26&volume=&issue=&spage=A.22&au=&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
In August, a lawyer for Exxon Mobil told a state court in Manhattan that New York's attorney general should either sue the company for misleading investors about the impact of climate change on its finances or drop the case. "They should put up or shut up," the lawyer, Theodore Wells Jr., said of a tangled case that had dragged on for more than two years. The weary judge, Barry Ostrager, agreed. "This cannot go on interminably," he said. 
Put-up time has arrived. Late last month, Attorney General Barbara Underwood filed a fraud lawsuit against the company. Exxon responded with a 38-page brief basically denying everything. And Judge Ostrager has set a trial date for October of next year. 
Much can happen between now and then. But the judge's decision to allow the case to proceed could provide a rare teaching moment that allows the public to see a powerful company grappling with the kinds of choices that all legacy fossil fuel companies will surely face in a carbon-constrained world. 
The case is not a rehash of the copiously documented charge that Exxon had for years subsidized climate change denialist groups even as its own scientists were acutely aware of the dangers of global warming. That charge is partly what inspired Ms. Underwood's predecessor, Eric Schneiderman, to begin investigating the company in the first place. But Exxon has since agreed that climate change is a problem, supported the Paris agreement and invested in cleaner fuels. Nor does the suit hold the company responsible for climate change, unlike several cases against the fossil fuel industry brought by New York City and other localities seeking damages from the rise of sea levels and other consequences of a warming world. Most of these suits have been thrown out of court. 
Instead, the suit is a straightforward shareholder fraud case contending that Exxon deceived investors by saying publicly that it had fully accounted for the risks of climate change while in fact deliberately minimizing and, in some cases, ignoring these risks when making its business decisions. These actions, the suit charges, inflated the company's value by making it appear to be on firmer financial footing than it actually was. 
The case is also numbingly complex, involving competing claims about arcane "proxy costs" -- theoretical calculations of the expenses the company would be likely to incur when stringent government regulations kick in to limit the emissions of climate-altering compounds. The suit claims that even as Exxon assured investors that it was applying rigid accounting to operations and holdings, in practice it was not, thus avoiding painful write-downs on oil and gas reserves it might have to abandon if the true costs of regulation were taken into account. In one example, the suit charges, the company failed to apply publicly stated proxy costs to 14 oil sands projects in Alberta, leading to undercounting future regulatory expenses by $25 billion. 
To all of this, Exxon has two main responses. First, it says, the attorney general misunderstands the way the company calculates and applies costs. Scott Silvestri, an Exxon spokesman, said in a statement, "The company looks forward to refuting these claims as soon as possible and getting this meritless civil lawsuit dismissed." Second, echoing what the company has said from the beginning, it claims that the inquiry is basically a witch hunt inspired by interest groups and Mr. Schneiderman, a politically ambitious Democrat. 
Given the case's complexity and the extensive documentation assembled by both sides, we do not envy the task facing Judge Ostrager, either in deciding the merits or in assessing stockholder damages down the road, should it come to that. Calculating the climate change liabilities that any company might incur decades into the future is anything but an exact science. 
But thanks to the judge, we will have a window on the world of the old fossil fuel companies that for generations have powered the global economy but that are now held heavily culpable for climate change and its consequences. They inhabit a perilous landscape, where changing their business model will almost certainly mean giving up much of their core business. The lawsuit clearly implies that if Exxon had properly anticipated the costs of regulation and honestly applied them to its investment decisions, it might not have sunk billions into carbon-intensive projects like the Canada tar sands. Indeed, it might have used that money to build a stronger portfolio in cleaner fuels. 
And so it is and will be with these companies. They can carry on, extracting coal and oil and gas from the ground, exposing the world to the ravages of climate change. They can slowly transition from these dirty fuels. Or they can aggressively adopt a different, cleaner path. That is what this case is ultimately about. 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram . 
Credit: THE EDITORIAL BOARD 

Illustration 
DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANTONIO SORTINO) Copyright New York Times Company Nov 26, 2018 
Subject  Oil reserves; Regulation; Fossil fuels; Climate change; Natural gas reserves; Editorials; Shareholder relations; Petroleum industry; Court hearings & proceedings; Investors; Litigation; Fraud  
Location  New York; United States--US  
People  Schneiderman, Eric  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Exxon Mobil Corp 211111, 447110  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/25/opinion/exxon-climate-change-lawsuit.html  
Title  Is Exxon Conning Its Investors?: [Editorial]  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.22  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Nov 26, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  2137342260  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2137342260?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Nov 26, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-27  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 33 of 236 


White House Mutes Alarm Over Climate: [News Analysis] 
Davenport, Coral.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]26 Nov 2018: A.1. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=White+House+Mutes+Alarm+Over+Climate%3A+%5BNews+Analysis%5D&title= 11-26&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Davenport%2C+Coral&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd: , our email newsletter. 
WASHINGTON -- The Trump White House, which has defined itself by a willingness to dismiss scientific findings and propose its own facts, on Friday issued a scientific report that directly contradicts its own climate-change policies. 
That sets the stage for a remarkable split-screen political reality in coming years. The administration is widely expected to discount or ignore the report's detailed findings of the economic strain caused by climate change, even as it continues to cut environmental regulations, while opponents use it to mount legal attacks against the very administration that issued the report. 
"This report will be used in court in significant ways," said Richard L. Revesz, an expert in environmental law at New York University. "I can imagine a lawyer for the Trump administration being asked by a federal judge, 'How can the federal government acknowledge the seriousness of the problem, and then set aside the rules that protect the American people from the problem?' And they might squirm around coming up with an answer." 
The 1,656-page National Climate Assessment, which is required by Congress, is the most comprehensive scientific study to date detailing the effects of global warming on the United States economy, public health, coastlines and infrastructure. It describes in precise detail how the warming planet will wreak hundreds of billions of dollars of damage in coming decades. 
President Trump has often questioned or mocked the basic science of human-caused climate change, and is now working aggressively to encourage the burning of coal and the increase of greenhouse gas pollution. 
Historians and veterans of public service said it was notable that policymakers didn't try to soften the report's conclusions, because that indicated the strength of the administration's belief that it could ignore the findings in favor of policies driven by political ideology. "This is a new frontier of disavowance of science, of disdain for facts," said William K. Reilly, who headed the Environmental Protection Agency under the first President George Bush. 
A White House statement said the report, started under the Obama administration, was "largely based on the most extreme scenario" of global warming and that the next assessment would provide an opportunity for greater balance. 
Under a 1990 law, the federal government is required to issue the climate assessment every four years. The latest version introduces new complexity in the political fight over regulations designed to fight climate change. That's because, until the administration of President Barack Obama, no such regulations existed to be fought over. 
Mr. Trump has made it a centerpiece of his administration's policy to undo these rules. He has directed the Environmental Protection Agency to sharply weaken the nation's two major policies for curbing planet-warming pollution: One rule that would restrict greenhouse emissions from vehicle tailpipes, and another that would limit them from power plant smokestacks. 
The rules are grounded in a 2009 legal finding, which has been upheld by federal courts, that planet-warming pollution harms human health and well-being, and therefore government policies are needed to reduce it. 
In publishing the assessment, White House officials made a calculation that Mr. Trump's core base of supporters most likely would not care that its findings are so at odds with the president's statements and policies. 
That view is supported by Steven J. Milloy, a member of Mr. Trump's E.P.A. transition team who runs the website junkscience.com, which is aimed at casting doubt on the established science of human-caused climate change. "We don't care," he said. "In our view, this is made-up hysteria anyway." 
Mr. Milloy echoed a talking point used by other critics of the report, calling it the product of the "deep state," a term that refers to the conspiratorial notion of a secret alliance of bureaucrats and others who oppose the president. 
"Trying to stop the deep state from doing this in the first place, or trying to alter the document, and then creating a whole new narrative -- it's better to just have it come out and get it over with," said Mr. Milloy. "But do it on a day when nobody cares, and hope it gets swept away by the next day's news." 
Work on the climate assessment, which was performed by about 300 scientists, including career government scientists at 13 federal agencies, commenced shortly after the publication of the previous report, in 2014. The project was already well underway by the time Mr. Trump took office in 2017. 
The decision not to alter or suppress the report's findings -- despite its scientific conclusions so much at odds with the president's policies -- reflected a clear political calculus, according to three people familiar with the White House's thinking. 
Since the report is mandated by Congress, not issuing it would have been a violation of the law. While some political appointees within one of the agencies that contributed scientific work to the report did suggest editing the summary of its conclusions to play down the findings, that idea was also seen as too risky politically and legally, these people said. 
Instead, these people said, administration officials hoped to minimize the impact by making the assessment public on the afternoon of Black Friday, the big shopping day after the Thanksgiving holiday, thinking that Americans might be unlikely to be paying attention. 
People familiar with the decision to publish said that White House officials sought to avoid the political blowback that hit the George W. Bush administration when it was revealed in 2005 that a White House official and former oil lobbyist, Philip A. Cooney, altered the language of government climate science reports to weaken the link between fossil fuel pollution and the warming of the planet. 
"This moment tells you that there is a difference between the White House and the president," said Douglas Brinkley, a presidential historian at Rice University. The White House has "lawyers and policy experts that don't want to go down in history as falsifying data." 
In light of Friday's report, Mr. Brinkley drew a parallel between Mr. Trump's statements on climate science and President Lyndon B. Johnson's false statements to the American public a half-century ago about the Vietnam War. "Johnson used to tell people everything was going well in Vietnam, and then you'd turn on the news and see the mayhem," he said. "It was this giant disconnect." 
In interviews with about a dozen authors of the climate assessment, all said that White House officials had not sought to soften or weaken its language. 
"I will give credit where it's due: No one at the political level did any monkeying around with this," said Andrew Light, a co-author of the report and a senior fellow at the World Resources Institute, a Washington research organization. "For all the criticism of the Trump administration quashing climate science, this is one case where they did not do that." 
Nevertheless, despite the satisfaction at seeing their scientific work made public, many of the authors expressed disappointment that Mr. Trump's strategy appears to be to ignore the findings and move forward with plans to undo climate change policies. 
"It's incredibly frustrating," said Paul Chinowsky, a professor of civil engineering at the University of Colorado, Boulder, and a co-author of the report's chapter on the effect of climate change on roads, bridges and other infrastructure. That chapter concludes that more extreme storms, flooding and heat waves, along with rising sea levels, will damage the nation's roadways, leading to dangerous infrastructure collapses and up to $21 billion in damage by the century's end. 
I'm watching these arguments between politicians and scientists, but I'm on the ground with public works officials who say that argument's irrelevant," Mr. Chinowsky said. "People are going to get hurt and die if we don't change the policy." 
For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. 

Photograph 
President Trump touring Paradise, Calif., an area devastated by the state's worst wildfire. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM BRENNER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) Copyright New York Times Company Nov 26, 2018 
Subject 	Scientists; 
Politics; 

Presidents; 
Political appointments; 
Environmental protection; 
Infrastructure; 

Environmental policy; 
Climate science; 
Climate change; 
Research; 
Scientific method; 

Environmental regulations; 

Global warming; 
Environmental monitoring 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Trump, Donald J 
Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 

NAICS: 924110 


URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/25/climate/trump-climate-report.html  
Title  White House Mutes Alarm Over Climate: [News Analysis]  
Author  Davenport, Coral  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  

Pages  A.1  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Nov 26, 2018  
column  News Analysis  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2137342202  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2137342202?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Nov 26, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-27  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 34 of 236 


Coal Endangers A Planet Unable To Stop Using It: [Foreign Desk] 
Sengupta, Somini.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]25 Nov 2018: A.1. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Coal+Endangers+A+Planet+Unable+To+Stop+Using+It%3A+%5BForeign+Desk 11-25&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Sengupta%2C+Somini&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd: , our email newsletter. 
HANOI, Vietnam -- Coal, the fuel that powered the industrial age, has led the planet to the brink of catastrophic climate change. 
Scientists have repeatedly warned of its looming dangers, most recently on Friday, when a major scientific report issued by 13 United States government agencies warned that the damage from climate change could knock as much as 10 percent off the size of the American economy by century's end if significant steps aren't taken to rein in warming. 
An October report from the United Nations' scientific panel on global warming found that avoiding the worst devastation would require a radical transformation of the world economy in just a few years. 
Central to that transformation: Getting out of coal, and fast. 
And yet, three years after the Paris agreement, when world leaders promised action, coal shows no sign of disappearing. While coal use looks certain to eventually wane worldwide, according to the latest assessment by the International Energy Agency, it is not on track to happen anywhere fast enough to avert the worst effects of climate change. Last year, in fact, global production and consumption increased after two years of decline. 
Cheap, plentiful and the most polluting of fossil fuels, coal remains the single largest source of energy to generate electricity worldwide. This, even as renewables like solar and wind power are rapidly becoming more affordable. Soon, coal could make no financial sense for its backers. 
So, why is coal so hard to quit? 
Because coal is a powerful incumbent. It's there by the millions of tons under the ground. Powerful companies, backed by powerful governments, often in the form of subsidies, are in a rush to grow their markets before it is too late. Banks still profit from it. Big national electricity grids were designed for it. Coal plants can be a surefire way for politicians to deliver cheap electricity -- and retain their own power. In some countries, it has been a glistening source of graft. 
And even while renewables are spreading fast, they still have limits: Wind and solar power flow when the breeze blows and the sun shines, and that requires traditional electricity grids to be retooled. 
"The main reason why coal sticks around is, we built it already," said Rohit Chandra, who earned a doctoral degree in energy policy at Harvard, specializing in coal in India. 
The battle over the future of coal is being waged in Asia. 
The world's coal juggernaut 
Home to half the world's population, Asia accounts for three-fourths of global coal consumption today. More important, it accounts for more than three-fourths of coal plants that are either under construction or in the planning stages -- a whopping 1,200 of them, according to Urgewald, a German advocacy group that tracks coal development. Heffa Schücking, who heads Urgewald, called those plants "an assault on the Paris goals." 
Indonesia is digging more coal. Vietnam is clearing ground for new coal-fired power plants. Japan, reeling from 2011 nuclear plant disaster, has resurrected coal. 
The world's juggernaut, though, is China. The country consumes half the world's coal. More than 4.3 million Chinese are employed in the country's coal mines. China has added 40 percent of the world's coal capacity since 2002, a huge increase for just 16 years. "I had to do the calculation three times," said Carlos Fernández Alvarez, a senior energy analyst at the International Energy Agency. "I thought it was wrong. It's crazy." 
Spurred by public outcry over air pollution, China is now also the world leader in solar and wind power installation, and its central government has tried to slow down coal plant construction. But an analysis by Coal Swarm, a U.S.-based team of researchers that advocates for coal alternatives, concluded that new plants continue to be built, and other proposed projects have simply been delayed rather than stopped. Chinese coal consumption grew in 2017, though at a far slower pace than before, and is on track to grow again in 2018, after declining in previous years. 
China's coal industry is now scrambling to find new markets, from Kenya to Pakistan. Chinese companies are building coal plants in 17 countries, according to Urgewald. Its regional rival, Japan, is in the game too: nearly 60 percent of planned coal projects developed by Japanese companies are outside the country, mostly financed by Japanese banks. 
That contest is particularly stark in Southeast Asia, one of the world's last frontiers of coal expansion. 
'Even the trees are dying' 
Nguy Thi Khanh has seen the contest close-up in Vietnam. Born in 1976, a year after the end of the war, she remembers doing homework by the light of a kerosene lamp. In 

her northern village, the electricity failed several hours a day. When it rained, there was no power at all. When it came, it came from a coal plant not far away. When her mother 
hung laundry to dry, ash settled on the clothes. 
Today, pretty much every household in Vietnam, population 95 million, has electricity. Hanoi, the capital, where Ms. Nguy now lives, is in a frenzy of new construction, with 

soaring demand for cement and steel -- both energy guzzlers. The economy is galloping. And, up and down the coast, 1,600 kilometers in length, foreign companies, mainly 

from Japan and China, are building coal plants. 
One such project is in Nghi Son, a onetime fishing village south of Hanoi and now home to a sprawling industrial zone. The first power plant opened here in 2013. Japan's 
overseas aid organization, the Japan International Cooperation Agency, paid for it. The Japanese trading house Marubeni developed it. 

A second coal-fired power plant, far bigger, is under construction next door. Marubeni is building that too, along with a Korean company. The Japan Bank for International 

Cooperation, an export credit agency meant to lower financial risk for private lenders, is helping to fund it. 
In the shadow of the smokestack, Nguyen Thi Thu Thien was drying shrimp on the side of the road and complaining bitterly. She had moved out of her house after the power 
plant built an ash pond right in front. "The coal dust has blackened my house," she said. "Even the trees are dying. We can't live there." 

She and the others drying shrimp on the road were doubly angry that the new plant would need a new port, and that would displace their husbands, who tie up their fishing boats there. 
Trucks rumbled by, throwing up dust, as the women emptied their baskets of shrimp. They kept every bit of themselves covered: wide brimmed hats, face masks, gloves. 
Coal accounts for 36 percent of the country's power generation capacity now; it is projected to grow to 42 percent by 2030, according to the government. To feed those plants, 
Vietnam will need to import 90 million tons of coal by 2030. 

But coal projects are also sparking community opposition rare in a country that squelches dissent. Villagers blocked a highway in 2015 to protest a Chinese project in the 

southeast. The provincial authorities quashed another proposed plant in the Mekong Delta. 
Most plants in Vietnam use old, polluting technologies that many investors, including Marubeni, have recently promised not to back in future projects. A company spokesman 
said by email that it would continue with the Nghi Son project "to contribute to stable power supply and to economic growth." 

Vietnam says it is on track to meet its emissions reductions targets under the Paris accord. So, too, China and India, with far bigger carbon footprints. But those targets were set by the countries themselves, and they will not be enough to keep global temperatures from rising to calamitous levels. The United States has said it will exit the Paris climate pact. 
Those sobering facts loom over the next round of international climate negotiations, starting Dec. 3 in the heart of Poland's coal country. The American delegation plans to promote coal at the event, just as it did at last year's talks in Bonn, Germany. 
A potent political force 
In the public imagination, the coal miner has long been a symbol of industrial virility, a throwback to an era when hard labor -- particularly men's labor, rather than robots -­fueled economic growth. 

That idea has been central to politics. German coal miners have lifted the fortunes of that country's far-right party. Poland's right-wing government has promised to open new 

coal mines. Australia's prime minister, Scott Morrison, rose to power as a champion of coal. 
President Trump has promised, unsuccessfully so far, to revive coal mining jobs and instructed his Environmental Protection Agency to roll back rules to reduce emissions from 
coal-fired power plants. 

That message might be welcome in American coal country, but the industry's future in the United States is not promising. There are cheaper fuels, including natural gas; gas now accounts for around 31 percent of total power generation in the United States, the same share as coal. China has imposed tariffs on coal imports from the United States, in the tit-for-tat trade dispute. More than 200 coal plants have closed since 2010, and coal consumption has continued to decline, contrary to Mr. Trump's false claims. Coal mining jobs have plummeted over the last decade, despite a modest increase of about 4 percent in the first 18 months of the Trump presidency. 
'We have coal. We are producing more every year.' 
The economics, and the political calculus, are very different in the world's biggest democracy: India, population 1.3 billion. 
Ajay Mishra, the career civil servant in charge of energy in the central Indian state of Telangana, knows firsthand. 
Five years ago, he said, daily power cuts cursed his state. Ceiling fans cut out on stifling summer afternoons. Factories ran on diesel-guzzling generators. The people of 

Telangana were furious. 

State officials had to do something to fix the electricity problem. They harnessed the sun, briefly making Telangana a leading solar power producer in India. They also turned to what government officials have relied on for over a century: the vast vein of coal that sat underground, stretching across the hills and forests of central India. Telangana now has round-the-clock electricity. Its farmers get it free to pump water. It sweetens the re-election bid of Telangana's top elected official, K. Chandrashekar Rao, in 
state polls later this year. 
"We have coal," Mr. Mishra said. "We are producing more every year. For the next 100 years we have it." 
On a warm Tuesday in October, about a four-hour drive from Hyderabad, the capital of Telangana, an army of men in indigo shorts went underground to dig it out. 
A simple pulley drew them in, a bit like a ski lift, except here, it took them deeper and deeper down a shaft. The creak of the pulley was all you could hear, and water, drip-

dripping inside the earth. Here and there, off to the side, stood miners, their forms barely visible in the darkness, except for the belted flashlights that snaked across their 

bodies. 
At about 900 feet below the surface, where the air was black and cool and the coal under our feet was squishy, a burst of explosives broke down a wall of coal. Small, sooty 
chunks were piled into tubs and wheeled out, then loaded onto coal trucks that hurtled down the country roads, sprinkling a layer of ash everywhere. 

So deeply is India invested in coal, this, like other mines, is state owned. So are most power plants. Coal subsidizes the country's vast rail network. 
That person at the top of that system, India's prime minister, Narendra Modi, has sought to cast himself as a champion of clean energy. 
But Mr. Modi has been inaugurating new coal mines, too. His government has made it faster for industry, including mining, to get environmental clearances, rankling environmentalists. India's state-owned companies are building new coal-fired plants across the country, almost all of them financed by public sector banks. 
In an interview in the capital, New Delhi, India's energy secretary, Ajay Bhalla, said some 50 gigawatts of additional coal capacity were under construction. That's a fraction of what was under development even a decade ago, when India's energy demand was projected to soar. Many of those plants are meant to replace older, more polluting ones. But coal would not sunset anytime soon, he predicted, not until there's a cheap and efficient way to store energy from solar and wind energy. 
Analysts say India must retool its electricity grid for the post-coal era. Battery technology is fast advancing. Microgrids can replace traditional electricity systems. Many existing coal plants are now running below capacity, several are idle, and new energy efficiency standards could slow down demand to the point where there may be a glut of costly coal-fired plants. Left holding this bundle of stranded assets: The public sector banks that financed them. 
For now, though, coal accounts for 58 percent of India's energy mix. 
"It's not that I'm using the coal very willingly," Mr. Bhalla said. "But I have to." 
For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. 

Photograph 
Top, an open pit mine in Burdwan, West Bengal, India. Above, miners reinforcing the roof of a coal pit in the central Indian state of Telangana. India's state-owned companies are building even more new coal-fired plants across the country, almost all of them financed by public sector banks. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY REBECCA CONWAY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Left, the control room of a power plant in Telangana. Right, a cooling tower at a coal-fired plant in Hebei Province, China. More than 4.3 million workers are employed in China's coal mines. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY REBECCA CONWAY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; KIM KYUNG HOON/REUTERS) (A14) Copyright New York Times Company Nov 25, 2018 
Subject 	Mines; 

Wind power; 

Consumption; 
Electricity; 
Electricity distribution; 
Economic impact; 
Global warming; 
Coal mining; 

Environmental impact; 
Energy; 
Coal-fired power plants; 
Climate change; 
Public sector 


Location 	United States--US; India; Vietnam; China; Asia; Japan 
Company / organization 	Name: International Energy Agency 

NAICS: 541720, 926130, 928120 


URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/24/climate/coal-global-warming.html 
Title 	Coal Endangers A Planet Unable To Stop Using It: [Foreign Desk] 
Author 	Sengupta, Somini 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.1 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Nov 25, 2018 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2137201426  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2137201426?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Nov 25, 2018  
Last updated  2019-05-29  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 35 of 236 


Here to Help: [Science Desk] 
Schwartz, John; Pierre-Louis, Kendra.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]24 Nov 2018: A.3. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Here+to+Help%3A+%5BScience+Desk%5D&title=New+York+Times&issn=0362 11-24&volume=&issue=&spage=A.3&au=Schwartz%2C+John%3BPierre-Louis%2C+Kendra&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Welcome to the Climate Fwd: newsletter. The New York Times climate team emails readers once a week with stories and insights about climate change. Sign up here to get it in 
your inbox. 
By John Schwartz 
Hi, everybody, and welcome back to the Climate Fwd: newsletter, where we are asking, "Are we doomed?" (Spoiler: no.) 

It's an essay I wrote for the 40th anniversary of Science Times, one of the "11 Things We'd Really Like to Know." 
Although the essay expresses a guardedly optimistic view, some recent climate news has been pretty grim. For example, a new study suggests that without aggressive action to 
curb global warming, climate-related crises are likely to come in bunches. By 2100, there could be as many as six at a time in some places, "like a terror movie that is real," as 
the lead author of the study said. 

So that does sound a little like doom. But the essay and the news article aren't in conflict. And since I wrote both of them, I'm not in conflict with myself, either. Here's why: The prospects for the planet are grim if we don't take forceful measures (and even if we do, we'll still have problems). But big reductions of greenhouse gases can make a difference -- the difference, say, between four concurrent disasters in New York someday if we continue with business as usual, and just one at a time if we change course. 
One of the ways to tackle climate change is as humble as dirt and trees. Our colleague Brad Plumer points to research that says better conservation of forests and grasslands in 
the United States could offset as much as 21 percent of the country's annual greenhouse gas emissions. 
In other news, President Trump has said he will nominate Andrew Wheeler, the former coal lobbyist serving as acting administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, to 
the permanent post. Lisa Friedman was interviewing him the day the news came down, and here's her story. 

Also, California is still dealing with the deadly wildfires, which, yes, are inextricably linked to climate change. And not to raking. 

One thing you can do: Leave some leaves 
By John Schwartz 
Speaking of raking, here's one thing you can do: 
Don't. 
Rake, I mean. 
A perfectly manicured lawn might be a suburban ideal, but it's not the best way to help the environment. 
After I tweeted this month about getting the leaves off my lawn -- and about the fact that I couldn't lift my arms -- some folks suggested that I was being a dope by raking at 

all. So I made some calls. 
It turns out that leaving your leaves provides a terrific habitat for moths and some butterflies at various stages of their life cycles. Those pollinators will help your garden and 

the planet when they emerge, and many of them will become food for your neighborhood birds. The birds "need a lot of fat and protein, and caterpillars are a major source of 
that," said John Rowden, director of community conservation for the National Audubon Society. 
The leaves also break down and nourish your lawn so that you won't need fertilizer, or as much, in the spring. If you have big, leafy trees that are going to smother your yard, 

you can rake away some leaves and leave the rest. Dr. Rowden said mulching mowers can reduce the mess, if you find leaf litter too unsightly to live with. Leaving at least 

some, whether as leaf litter, as piles in a garden section or as a compost heap, can do a lot. 
There's a climate change angle, of course: you're not burning fossil fuels for mowing, leaf blowing or neighborhood collection, and by providing refuge for birds, "we are helping 
them cope with the effects of climate change," Dr. Rowden said. 

The National Wildlife Federation has a program, "Garden for Wildlife," that gives tips on how to make your yard greener. David Mizejewski, a naturalist with the organization, pointed out that masses of leaves in landfills emit methane and carbon dioxide, which contribute to planetary warming. 
The leaf piles on your lawn can also house amphibians like toads, which need all the help they can get. "You're building a food chain when you build a natural garden," Mr. Mizejewski said. 
Dr. Rowden admitted he was not a fan of the classically perfect lawn anyway. "Nature isn't quite manicured," he said. "Nature is a little more messy." 
So, neighbors, I'm not planning a second round of lawn clearing. Please pardon my mess. I'm not lazy! I'm saving the planet. 
And, speaking of saving the planet, here's a follow-up to last week's article on dishwashing. Several readers wrote to us to point out that food scraps could be composted instead of scraped into the trash. They're absolutely correct. Those bits of food, like leaves, can do a lot. So thanks, readers. 
Tofu vs. Turkey? 
By Kendra Pierre-Louis 
For many Americans, a Thanksgiving without turkey is no Thanksgiving at all. Every year in late November we serve 46 million turkeys, more than on Easter and Christmas combined. 
For vegetarians, faux products like Tofurky are common alternatives. But from the perspective of greenhouse gas emissions, do vegan replacements made from soy and wheat beat out their animal counterparts? 
Yes, according to David Chen, a master's student at the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research. When Mr. Chen was an undergraduate at McGill University in Montreal, he assessed the environmental impacts of all the meals at the university's cafeterias. The results were published in 2016. 
The paper didn't focus on turkey, but it did study chickens, which Mr. Chen called "kind of the ultimate efficient factory-farmed animal." 
This efficiency has to do with a measurement called the feed conversion ratio, which represents how much food you have to give an animal to produce a given quantity of meat. A completely efficient animal would turn one pound of grain into one pound of meat, for a ratio of 1:1. 
"The reality right now for chickens is around 1.5," Mr. Chen said. 
For turkeys the ratio is closer to two pounds of fodder per pound of meat, which makes turkeys less efficient than chickens, and the related emissions higher. 
Chickens release three to 16 times more greenhouse gas emissions per pound than soy products. So that means a tofu-based alternative could have a far smaller carbon footprint than poultry. 
There are some caveats. The study focused on equal weights, comparing, say, a pound of turkey to a pound of soy. But it didn't take calories into consideration. A pound of turkey has about 862 calories compared to 344 for tofu, so in theory you'd be eating less of the turkey. 
And depending on how they're raised, the carbon footprint of chickens can be on par with that of rice, or tomatoes and peppers raised in greenhouses. It's also about 2.5 times less than the footprint of cheese. 
Chickens also require less water than soy, Mr. Chen said. 
Whether you cook an actual turkey, a Tofurky or something different altogether, hold onto your leftovers. According to the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, if food waste were a country it would be the third-largest emitter of greenhouse gases in the world. 
In the United States, about 40 percent of the food that gets wasted is thrown out by consumers, so if you want to enjoy a traditional Thanksgiving with less guilt, eat your leftovers. The New York Times Cooking editors have assembled a few recipes to help you do just that. 
We'd love your feedback on this newsletter. Please email thoughts and suggestions to climateteam@nytimes.com . 
If you like what we're doing, please spread the word and send this to your friends. You can sign up here to get our newsletter delivered to your inbox each week. 
And be sure to check out our full assortment of free newsletters from The Times. 
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 
Photograph 
(PHOTOGRAPH BY TYLER VARSELL) 
Copyright New York Times Company Nov 24, 2018 

Subject 	Thanksgiving; 

Food; 
Greenhouse gases; 
Emissions; 

Carbon; 
Newsletters; 
Wildfowl; 

Poultry; 
Greenhouse effect; 
Climate change; 
Vegetarianism; 
Wildlife conservation 


Location  Montreal Quebec Canada; United States--US; New York; California  
People  Trump, Donald J; Wheeler, Andrew  
Company / organization  Name: New York Times Co  
NAICS: 511110, 511120, 515112, 515120;  
Name: United Nations--UN  
NAICS: 928120;  
Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS: 924110;  
Name: National Audubon Society  
NAICS: 813312, 813990;  
Name: National Wildlife Federation  
NAICS: 813312;  
Name: McGill University  
NAICS: 611310  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/21/climate/thanksgiving-leaves-turkey-tofurky.html  
Title  Here to Help: [Science Desk]  
Author  Schwartz, John; Pierre-Louis, Kendra  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.3  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Nov 24, 2018  
column  Climate Fwd:  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2137086958  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2137086958?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Nov 24, 2018  

Last updated 2019-07-12 
Database Global Newsstream 
document 36 of 236 



U.S. Climate Study Has Grim Warning of Economic Risks: [National Desk] 
Davenport, Coral; Pierre-Louis, Kendra.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]24 Nov 2018: A.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=U.S.+Climate+Study+Has+Grim+Warning+of+Economic+Risks%3A+%5BNation 11-24&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Davenport%2C+Coral%3BPierre-Louis%2C+Kendra&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd: , our email newsletter. 
WASHINGTON -- A major scientific report issued by 13 federal agencies on Friday presents the starkest warnings to date of the consequences of climate change for the United States, predicting that if significant steps are not taken to rein in global warming, the damage will knock as much as 10 percent off the size of the American economy by century's end. 
The report, which was mandated by Congress and made public by the White House, is notable not only for the precision of its calculations and bluntness of its conclusions, but also because its findings are directly at odds with President Trump's agenda of environmental deregulation, which he asserts will spur economic growth. 
Mr. Trump has taken aggressive steps to allow more planet-warming pollution from vehicle tailpipes and power plant smokestacks, and has vowed to pull the United States out of the Paris Agreement, under which nearly every country in the world pledged to cut carbon emissions. Just this week, he mocked the science of climate change because of a cold snap in the Northeast, tweeting, "Whatever happened to Global Warming?" 
But in direct language, the 1,656-page assessment lays out the devastating effects of a changing climate on the economy, health and environment, including record wildfires in California, crop failures in the Midwest and crumbling infrastructure in the South. Going forward, American exports and supply chains could be disrupted, agricultural yields could fall to 1980s levels by midcentury and fire season could spread to the Southeast, the report finds. 
"There is a bizarre contrast between this report, which is being released by this administration, and this administration's own policies," said Philip B. Duffy, president of the Woods Hole Research Center. 
All told, the report says, climate change could slash up to a tenth of gross domestic product by 2100, more than double the losses of the Great Recession a decade ago. 
Scientists who worked on the report said it did not appear that administration officials had tried to alter or suppress its findings. However, several noted that the timing of its release, at 2 p.m. the day after Thanksgiving, appeared designed to minimize its public impact. 
Still, the report could become a powerful legal tool for opponents of Mr. Trump's efforts to dismantle climate change policy, experts said. 
"This report will weaken the Trump administration's legal case for undoing climate change regulations, and it strengthens the hands of those who go to court to fight them," said Michael Oppenheimer, a professor of geosciences and international affairs at Princeton. 
[ Here's a summary of what's new in the report. ] 
The report is the second volume of the National Climate Assessment, which the federal government is required by law to produce every four years. The first volume was issued by the White House last year. 
The previous report, issued in May 2014, concluded with nearly as much scientific certainty, but not as much precision on the economic costs, that the tangible impacts of climate change had already started to cause damage across the country. It cited increasing water scarcity in dry regions, torrential downpours in wet regions and more severe heat waves and wildfires. 
The results of the 2014 report helped inform the Obama administration as it wrote a set of landmark climate change regulations. The following year, the E.P.A. finalized President Barack Obama's signature climate change policy, known as the Clean Power Plan, which aimed to slash planet-warming emissions from coal-fired power plants. At the end of the 2015, Mr. Obama played a lead role in brokering the Paris Agreement. 
But in 2016, Republicans in general and Mr. Trump in particular campaigned against those regulations. In rallies before cheering coal miners, Mr. Trump vowed to end what he called Mr. Obama's "war on coal" and to withdraw from the Paris deal. Since winning the election, his administration has moved decisively to roll back environmental regulations. 
The report puts the most precise price tags to date on the cost to the United States economy of projected climate impacts: $141 billion from heat-related deaths, $118 billion from sea level rise and $32 billion from infrastructure damage by the end of the century, among others. 
The findings come a month after the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, a group of scientists convened by the United Nations, issued its most alarming and specific report to date about the severe economic and humanitarian crises expected to hit the world by 2040. 
But the new report also emphasizes that the outcomes depend on how swiftly and decisively the United States and other countries take action to mitigate global warming. The authors put forth three main solutions: putting a price on greenhouse gas emissions, which usually means imposing taxes or fees on companies that release carbon dioxide into the atmosphere; establishing government regulations on how much greenhouse pollution can be emitted; and spending public money on clean-energy research. 
A White House statement said the report, which was started under the Obama administration, was "largely based on the most extreme scenario" of global warming and that the next assessment would provide an opportunity for greater balance. 
The report covers every region of the United States and asserts that recent climate-related events are signs of things to come. No area of the country will be untouched, from the Southwest, where droughts will curb hydropower and tax already limited water supplies, to Alaska, where the loss of sea ice will cause coastal flooding and erosion and force communities to relocate, to Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, where saltwater will taint drinking water. 
More people will die as heat waves become more common, the scientists say, and a hotter climate will also lead to more outbreaks of disease. 
Two areas of impact particularly stand out: trade and agriculture. 
Trade disruptions 
Mr. Trump has put trade issues at the center of his economic agenda, placing new tariffs on imports and renegotiating trade deals such as the North American Free Trade Agreement. But climate change is likely to be a disruptive force in trade and manufacturing, the report says. 
Extreme weather events driven by global warming are "virtually certain to increasingly affect U.S. trade and economy, including import and export prices and businesses with overseas operations and supply chains," the report concludes. 
Such disasters will temporarily shutter factories both in the United States and abroad, causing price spikes for products from apples to automotive parts, the scientists predicted. So much of the supply chain for American companies is overseas that almost no industry will be immune from the effects of climate change at home or abroad, the report says. 
It cites as an example the extreme flooding in Thailand in 2011. Western Digital, an American company that produces 60 percent of its hard drives there, sustained $199 million in losses and halved its hard drive shipments in the last quarter of 2011. The shortages temporarily doubled hard drive prices, affecting other American companies like Apple, HP and Dell. 
American companies should expect many more such disruptions, the report says. 
"Climate change is another risk to the strength of the U.S. trade position, and the U.S. ability to export," said Diana Liverman, a University of Arizona professor and co-author of the report. "It can affect U.S. products, and as it drives poverty abroad we can lose consumer markets." 
Agricultural risks 
The nation's farm belt is likely to be among the hardest-hit regions, and farmers in particular will see their bottom lines threatened. 
"Rising temperatures, extreme heat, drought, wildfire on rangelands and heavy downpours are expected to increasingly disrupt agricultural productivity in the U.S.," the report says. "Expect increases in challenges to livestock health, declines in crop yields and quality and changes in extreme events in the United States and abroad." 
By 2050, the scientists forecast, changes in rainfall and hotter temperatures will reduce the agricultural productivity of the Midwest to levels last seen in the 1980s. 
The risks, the report noted, depend on the ability of producers to adapt to changes. 
During the 2012 Midwestern drought, farmers who incorporated conservation practices fared better, said Robert Bonnie, a Rubenstein Fellow at Duke University who worked in the Agriculture Department during the Obama administration. But federal programs designed to help farmers cope with climate change have stalled because the farm bill, the primary legislation for agricultural subsidies, expired this fall. 
The report says the Midwest, as well as the Northeast, will also experience more flooding when it rains, like the 2011 Missouri River flood that inundated a nuclear power plant near Omaha, forcing it to shut down for years. 
Other parts of the country, including much of the Southwest, will endure worsening droughts, further taxing limited groundwater supplies. Those droughts can lead to fires, a phenomenon that played out this fall in California as the most destructive wildfire in state history killed dozens of people. 
The report predicts that frequent wildfires, long a plague of the Western United States, will also become more common in other regions, including the Southeast. The 2016 Great Smoky Mountains wildfires, which killed 14 people and burned more than 17,000 acres in Tennessee, may have been just the beginning. But unlike in the West, "in the Southeast, they have no experience with an annual dangerous fire season, or at least very little," said Andrew Light, a co-author of the report and a senior fellow at the World Resources Institute. 
Climate change is taking the United States into uncharted territory, the report concludes. "The assumption that current and future climate conditions will resemble the recent past is no longer valid," it says. 
There is always some uncertainty in climate projections, but scientists' estimates about the effects of global warming to date have largely been borne out. The variable going forward, the report says, is the amount of carbon emissions humans produce. 
For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. 
Coral Davenport reported from Washington, and Kendra Pierre-Louis from New York. 
Photograph 
Clockwise from top: A home in the path of a wildfire in Paradise, Calif.; steam from a refinery in Port Arthur, Tex.; a volunteer help- ing flood victims in Wilmington, N.C. A new report cited climate change's heavy toll on the environment, health and the economy. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NOAH BERGER/ASSOCIATED PRESS; BRANDON THIBODEAUX FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; TAMIR KALIFA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1); Cleaning up after flooding at a Western Digital hard drive factory in Thailand in 2011. The company sustained $199 million in losses. The commute in Los Angeles. A waiver allows California to en- force air pollution standards that are stronger than federal ones. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES) (A17) Copyright New York Times Company Nov 24, 2018 
Subject 
Emissions;  
Floods;  
Greenhouse effect;  
Climate change;  
Economic forecasts;  
Global warming;  
Environmental impact;  
Environmental policy;  
Deregulation;  
Environmental regulations;  
Economic impact  
Location  United States--US  
People  Trump, Donald J  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/23/climate/us-climate-report.html  
Title  U.S. Climate Study Has Grim Warning of Economic Risks: [National Desk]  
Author  Davenport, Coral; Pierre-Louis, Kendra  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.1  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Nov 24, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2137086643  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2137086643?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Nov 24, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-26  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 37 of 236 



Steady Hand at E.P.A. After String of Setbacks: [National Desk] 
Friedman, Lisa.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]23 Nov 2018: A.18. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Steady+Hand+at+E.P.A.+After+String+of+Setbacks%3A+%5BNational+Desk% 11-23&volume=&issue=&spage=A.18&au=Friedman%2C+Lisa&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd: , our email newsletter. 
WASHINGTON -- Before resigning as the head of the Environmental Protection Agency this year, Scott Pruitt delighted President Trump with his zeal for proclaiming sweeping regulatory rollbacks, even though he left behind a trail of courtroom setbacks. 
Andrew R. Wheeler, a former energy lobbyist whom Mr. Trump plans to nominate to lead the E.P.A., has been quietly cleaning up the mess. 
Where virtually all of Mr. Pruitt's hastily written rollbacks and suspensions have been blocked by the courts, Mr. Wheeler has taken a far more deliberative approach, immersing himself in the legal intricacies -- a strategy that could make Mr. Wheeler one of the most effective drivers of the Trump administration's ambitious plan to rewrite the nation's rule book on the environment and climate. 
"He's done a fantastic job," Mr. Trump said Friday of Mr. Wheeler, who has served as the E.P.A.'s acting administrator since Mr. Pruitt stepped down in July amid a wave of ethics scandals. Supporters say the White House sees in Mr. Wheeler the anti-Pruitt: drama-free, low-key, and, most importantly, able to get the proposed rollbacks through the courts. 
In doing this, however, Mr. Wheeler has already found himself at odds not only with conservative groups but others within his own administration. 
But these tensions underscored what many say is the essential difference between Mr. Trump's first and second choices for E.P.A. chief: Where Mr. Pruitt sought the limelight, Mr. Wheeler sweats the details. And that could make him a far more formidable weapon than his predecessor in the Trump administration's vast reshaping of environmental and climate rules. 
"Andy Wheeler is one of the few calm spots in the turbulent seas of this executive branch," said Scott Segal, a fossil fuel lobbyist for Bracewell who has worked closely with Mr. Wheeler. "That must come as a pretty welcome relief to this White House." He also has "sufficient process understanding to make that agenda stick," Mr. Segal added. 
This summer, for instance, the E.P.A. took steps to replace the Clean Power Plan, a major Obama administration policy designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from power plants. The new version of the plan is significantly weaker. 
But Mr. Pruitt had wanted to eliminate the program entirely, while Mr. Wheeler, according to several industry sources, insisted that the government was legally obligated to have a climate plan. Therefore, eliminating the Clean Power Plan without replacing it could be challenged in court and leave an opening for even tougher regulations under a future Democratic president. 
"I got phone calls from conservatives wanting to know, 'Why did we do anything? Why are we putting forward a proposal at all?"' Mr. Wheeler acknowledged in an interview last week. His argument, that more restrictive replacement is better than killing off the climate regulation entirely, won the day. 
Then, in August, the E.P.A. and the Transportation Department moved to gut another major federal effort to combat climate change by relaxing rules aimed at reducing car tailpipe pollution. The Trump administration plan also voided California's ability to set its own, stricter standards, triggering a potentially ugly legal battle between Washington and blue states over the ability to fight global warming. 
Mr. Wheeler, according to several people involved in the discussions, pushed back forcefully against an analysis used by highway officials to justify the rollback, which argued that stricter fuel pollution rules would cause thousands of deaths in road accidents. The agency argued that more efficient cars are less safe because they are lighter. 
People who have attended meetings with Mr. Wheeler said he argued that the fatality numbers relied on bad calculations and were likely to be successfully challenged in court. 
Mr. Wheeler on Friday denied that he had clashed with Jeffrey A. Rosen, the chief Transportation Department architect of the auto-standards rollback, saying he merely sought to understand his colleagues' mathematical modeling and legal reasoning. "I wanted to make sure what we were putting forward would be upheld in the courts, and he assured me that the work they had done would be," Mr. Wheeler said. 
A department official, speaking on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak on the record, said on Tuesday that there was "no dispute" between the agencies. 
Mr. Wheeler's predecessor, Mr. Pruitt, faced more than a dozen federal investigations into his conduct, including his extensive use of first-class air travel, renting a condo from the wife of an energy lobbyist with business before the E.P.A. and enlisting aides on personal tasks like buying a used mattress from Trump International Hotel and seeking a Chick-fil-A franchise for his wife. 
The grandson of a coal miner and an Ohio native, Mr. Wheeler studied biology in college and got his first job after law school in the 1990s working at the E.P.A.'s office of pollution prevention and toxics. He later worked in the Senate for 14 years, most of that time for Senator James Inhofe, an Oklahoma Republican who has denied the established science of climate change. 
During that time, Mr. Pruitt was seen as a protégé of Senator Inhofe. The senator last week said he strongly supported Mr. Wheeler's nomination. 
As an energy lobbyist since 2009, Mr. Wheeler's top client was Robert E. Murray, the chief executive of one of the country's largest coal companies, a fierce opponent of E.P.A. climate change regulations and a denier of established climate science. 
Asked last week to describe his understanding of the best available science on global warming, Mr. Wheeler said: "I think climate change is happening. Man has an impact. CO2 has an impact." 
It's not a full acceptance of the scientific consensus that humans are the dominant cause of rising global temperatures. But it's closer to it than the positions of Mr. Pruitt, who falsely claimed that there was "tremendous disagreement" among scientists about how great a role humans play in driving warming, or Mr. Trump, who said "I don't know that it's man-made." 
Still, Mr. Wheeler argued, sweeping regulations, like the plan put forth by the Obama administration to force a shift toward renewable energy by asking states to reduce emissions from coal plants, would have "basically ended the coal industry in the United States." 
"People have to realize the use of coal worldwide has not peaked," Mr. Wheeler said. 
Since taking over as acting E.P.A. administrator, Mr. Wheeler has replaced Mr. Pruitt's artwork of Henry Clay, a former senator and secretary of state, with wall hangings of the Senate roll call vote for a highway spending bill he helped pass in 2005 and the bronze medals he earned for budgetary work at E.P.A. in the 1990s. He said he has not needed to use the $43,000 secure phone booth Mr. Pruitt installed. 
He also has made a point of being more deeply involved in the agency's inner workings. He visited all 10 of the E.P.A.'s regional offices at the start of his tenure and has involved the agency's longtime career employees in policy meetings, things Mr. Pruitt hadn't done. Moves like these have won praise from some of Mr. Pruitt's fiercest critics. 
"He's somebody that respects the institution of the E.P.A.," Kevin Minoli, the E.P.A.'s former top ethics counsel who had called for investigations into Mr. Pruitt, said of Mr. Wheeler. 
That hasn't endeared him to environmental groups, however. In fact, many say Mr. Wheeler's softer touch has made it harder to focus the public's attention on his weakening of clean air and water laws. 
"In some ways Pruitt distracted from some of the very negative things that were going on in environmental law, but in other ways there was a lot of attention being paid to E.P.A.," said Conrad Schneider, advocacy director for the Clean Air Task Force, an environmental nonprofit organization. 
Analysts on both sides say Mr. Wheeler is more pragmatic than his predecessor and more disciplined. Where Mr. Pruitt would throw his energy into ideological battles, like trying to create support for a military-style televised debate of climate science, Mr. Wheeler has eschewed the limelight and strategically focused on a handful of major policy initiatives. 
Under Mr. Wheeler's watch, the E.P.A. has moved forward with rolling back or weakening every major Obama-era climate change regulation. In addition to the proposal to loosen car pollution rules, those moves include replacing a landmark effort to curb greenhouse gas emissions from coal-fired power plants with a plan that the agency says will see air pollution actually rise, and reducing limits on methane pollution, a powerful greenhouse gas, from oil and gas wells. 
He also has focused on work begun by Mr. Pruitt to revise Mr. Obama's clean water regulation, known as the Waters of the United State rule, saying on Friday that the revisions "will be coming out soon." He has taken on an effort to weaken and perhaps repeal a 2011 rule that limits mercury, a toxic chemical that is emitted from coal plants. 
And, while he has pushed back to 2020 a plan initiated by Mr. Pruitt to impose broad new restrictions on the types of scientific research the E.P.A. uses to write regulations, he said he fully intended to finalize it. Emails obtained by the Union of Concerned Scientists, an advocacy group, have found that Mr. Pruitt's political staff excluded the E.P.A.'s chief science adviser from helping to design the rule. The group says the absence of scientists in the writing of the regulation undermined the administration's argument that the proposal was done in the interest of science. 
"Which is why we're taking our time with it now," Mr. Wheeler said. "It was proposed before I got here." 
However, under Mr. Wheeler, the E.P.A. also has eliminated the office of chief science adviser. 
"By word and deed, Wheeler is proving to be as bad and dangerous as Pruitt," said John Walke, clean air director at the Natural Resources Defense Council. 
Conservatives see Mr. Wheeler and his predecessor in a different light. Among them is Myron Ebell, who led Mr. Trump's E.P.A. transition team. "Pruitt was an outstanding advocate for the Trump agenda, and now it's up to Andy Wheeler to be the outstanding implementer of the Trump agenda," Mr. Ebell said. 
For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. 

Photograph 
Andrew R. Wheeler with members of the Environmental Protection Agency staff. He has been praised for engaging with the agency's workers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETE MAROVICH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) Copyright New York Times Company Nov 23, 2018 
Subject 	Scientists; 
Regulation; 
Air cleanliness; 
Greenhouse gases; 
Emissions; 

Regulatory agencies; 

Air pollution; 

Lobbyists; 

Coal-fired power plants; 
Environmental protection; 
Emission standards; 
Climate science; 

Industrial plant emissions; 

Climate change; 
User groups 


Company / organization Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA NAICS: 924110 
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/21/climate/andrew-wheeler-epa.html  
Title  Steady Hand at E.P.A. After String of Setbacks: [National Desk]  
Author  Friedman, Lisa  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.18  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Nov 23, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2136829402  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2136829402?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Nov 23, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-23  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 38 of 236 


Yellowstone's Eternal Scenes Are Changing Before Our Eyes: [National Desk] 
Holloway, Marguerite; Haner, Josh.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]23 Nov 2018: A.16. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Yellowstone%27s+Eternal+Scenes+Are+Changing+Before+Our+Eyes%3A+%5B 11-23&volume=&issue=&spage=A.16&au=Holloway%2C+Marguerite%3BHaner%2C+Josh&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
YELLOWSTONE NATIONAL PARK -- On a recent fall afternoon in the Lamar Valley, visitors watched a wolf pack lope along a thinly forested riverbank, 10 or so black and gray figures shadowy against the snow. A little farther along the road, a herd of bison swung their great heads as they rooted for food in the sagebrush steppe, their deep rumbles clear in the quiet, cold air. 
In the United States, Yellowstone National Park is the only place bison and wolves can be seen in great numbers. Because of the park, these animals survive. Yellowstone was 
crucial to bringing back bison, reintroducing gray wolves, and restoring trumpeter swans, elk, and grizzly bears -- all five species driven toward extinction found refuge here. But the Yellowstone of charismatic megafauna and of stunning geysers that four million visitors a year travel to see is changing before the eyes of those who know it best. Researchers who have spent years studying, managing, and exploring its roughly 3,400 square miles say that soon the landscape may look dramatically different. 
Over the next few decades of climate change, the country's first national park will quite likely see increased fire, less forest, expanding grasslands, more invasive plants, and shallower, warmer waterways -- all of which may alter how, and how many, animals move through the landscape. Ecosystems are always in flux, but climate change is transforming habitats so quickly that many plants and animals may not be able to adapt well or at all. 
Yellowstone National Park, established in 1872, is one of the Unesco World Heritage sites threatened by climate change. It is home to some of the country's oldest weather stations, including one at Mammoth Hot Springs. Data from the park and surrounding area has helped scientists understand and track climate change in the Western United States. 
Since 1948, the average annual temperature in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem -- an area of 34,375 square miles that includes the park, national forests and Grand Teton 
National Park -- has risen about 2 degrees Fahrenheit. Researchers report that winter is, on balance, 10 days shorter and less cold. 
"For the Northern Rockies, snowpack has fallen to its lowest level in eight centuries," said Patrick Gonzalez, a forest and climate change scientist at the University of California, 
Berkeley. 

Because snow is a cornerstone of the park's ecology, the decline is alarming to some ecologists. 

Summers in the park have become warmer, drier and increasingly prone to fire. Even if rainfall increases in the future, it will evaporate more quickly, said Michael Tercek, an 
ecologist who has worked in Yellowstone for 28 years. 
"By the time my daughter is an old woman, the climate will be as different for her as the last ice age seems to us," Dr. Tercek said. 
Yellowstone's unusual landscape -- of snow and steam, of cold streams and hot springs -- is volcanic. Magma gives rise to boiling water and multihued thermophiles, bacteria 

that thrive at high temperatures. 
In 1883, The New York Times described the park as an "almost mystical wonderland." 
For many visitors, Yellowstone represents American wilderness: a place with big, open skies where antelope and bison still roam. 
"You run into visitors and they thank you for the place," said Ann Rodman, a park scientist. "They are seeing elk and antelope for the first time in their lives." 
Ms. Rodman, who has been working in Yellowstone for 30 years, has pored over temperature and weather data. The trends surprised her, as well as the urgency. 
"When I first started doing it, I really thought climate change was something that was going to happen to us in the future," she said. "But it is one of those things where the 

more you study it, the more you realize how much is changing and how fast." 

"Then you begin to go through this stage, I don't know if it is like the stages of grief," Ms. Rodman said. "All of a sudden it hits you that this is a really, really big deal and we 
aren't really talking about it and we aren't really thinking about it." 
Ms. Rodman has seen vast changes near the town of Gardiner, Mont., at the north entrance to Yellowstone. Some non-nutritious invasive plants like cheatgrass and desert 

madwort have replaced nutritious native plants. Those changes worry Ms. Rodman and others: Give invasives an inch and they take miles. 
Cheatgrass has already spread into the Lamar Valley. "This is what we don't want -- to turn into what it looks like in Gardiner," Ms. Rodman said. "The seeds come in on people's 
cars and on people's boots." 

Cheatgrass can thrive in disturbed soils and can ignite "like tissue paper," she said. It takes hold after fires, preventing native plants from regrowing. 
If cheatgrass and its ilk spread, bison and elk could be affected. Cheatgrass, for instance, grows quickly in the spring. "It can suck the moisture out of the ground early," Ms. Rodman said. "Then it is gone, so it doesn't sustain animals throughout the summer the way native grasses would." 
In recent years, elk have lost forage when drier, hotter summers have shortened what ecologists call the green wave, in which plants become green at different times at different elevations, said Andrew J. Hansen of Montana State University. 
Some elk now stay in valleys outside the park, nibbling lawns and alfalfa fields, Dr. Hansen said. And where they go, wolves follow. "It is a very interesting mix of land-use change and climate change, possibly leading to quite dramatic shifts in migration and to thousands of elk on private land," he said. 
Drier summers also mean that fires are a greater threat. The conditions that gave rise to the fires of 1988, when a third of the park burned, could become common. 
By the end of the century, "the weather like the summer of '88 will likely be there all the time rather than being the very rare exception," said Monica G. Turner of the University of Wisconsin-Madison. "As the climate is warming, we are getting fires that are happening more often. We are starting to have the young forests burn again before they have had a chance to recover." 
In 2016, a wildfire swept through trees in a section near the Madison River that had burned in 1988. Because young trees don't have many cones on them, Dr. Turner said, they don't have as many seeds to release to form new forest. The cones they do have are close to the ground, which means they are less likely to survive the heat. 
Repeated fires could lead to more grassland. "The structure of the forests is going to change," Dr. Turner said. "They might become sparse or not recover if we keep doing a double and triple whammy." 
Forests shade waterways, and those too are experiencing climate-related changes. "We can very definitely see warming trends during the summer and fall," said Daniel J. Isaak of the United States Forest Service. "Stream and river flows are declining as snowpack declines." As fish become concentrated in smaller areas, Dr. Isaak said, disease can increase in a population because transmission is easier. 
In 2016, the Yellowstone River -- famous for its fly fishing and its cutthroat trout, which thrive in colder waters -- was closed to anglers for 183 miles downstream from the park after an outbreak of kidney disease killed thousands of fish. "The feeling was that this was a canary in the coal mine," said Dan Vermillion of Sweetwater Travel Company, a fly-fishing operation in Livingston, Mont. 
Lower flows and warmer water are one consequence of spring arriving earlier. Quickly melting snow unleashing torrents is another. Flooding has affected the nesting of water birds like common loons, American white pelicans, and double-crested cormorants. "All their nesting is on lakes and ponds, and water levels are fluctuating wildly, as it does with climate change," said Douglas W. Smith, a park biologist. 
And Yellowstone's trumpeter swans are declining. By the early 20th century, hunters had wiped out most of the enormous birds in the continental United States, killing them for food and fashionable feathers. But 70 or so swans remained in the Yellowstone region, some of them safe inside the park. Those birds helped restore trumpeters nationwide. Now only two trumpeter pairs live in the park, and they have not bred successfully for several years. 
Part of the reason, said Dr. Smith and a colleague, Lauren E. Walker, may be the loss of nests and nesting sites during spring floods. A pair on Swan Lake, just south of Mammoth Hot Springs, has spurned the floating nest that the Park Service installed to help the birds. 
"Heritage-wise this is a really important population," Dr. Walker said. "If this is no longer a reliable spot, what does that mean for the places that may have more human disturbance?" 
On the shores of Yellowstone Lake, dozens of late-season visitors watched two grizzly bears eating a carcass, while a coyote and some ravens circled, just a hundred or so yards from the road. "If they run this way," the ranger called out, "get in your cars." 
Grizzlies are omnivores, eating whatever is available, including the fat- and protein-packed nuts of the whitebark pine. That pine is perhaps the species most visibly affected by climate change in Yellowstone and throughout the West. Warmer temperatures have allowed a native pest, the mountain pine beetle, to better survive winter, move into high elevations and have a longer reproductive season. In the last 30 years, an estimated 80 percent of the whitebark pines in the park have died by fire, beetle, or fungal infection. 
For want of the whitebark pine, a great deal could be lost. The trees are a foundation species, meaning they play a central role in the structure of the ecosystem. They colonize exposed mountain sites, allowing other plants to get a root-hold. Their wide canopies protect snowpack from the sun. They are also a keystone species. They provide food for birds like the Clark's nutcracker, which, in turn, create whitebark pine nurseries by caching nuts. And they are an important food source for squirrels, foxes and grizzlies. 
When pine nuts are not plentiful, bears consume other foods, including the elk or deer innards left by hunters outside the park. And that can bring the Yellowstone-area grizzlies, relisted as threatened this September, into conflict with people. 
The loss of the pines "has far-reaching implications for the entire ecosystem," said Jesse A. Logan, a retired Forest Service researcher. 
"The rest of the landscape, even in the mountainous West, has been so altered that Yellowstone becomes even more important," Dr. Logan said. 
Yellowstone provides a refuge for people seeking and delighting in a sense of wilderness. It offers a landscape unlike any other: a largely intact ecosystem rich in wildlife and rich in geothermal features. Yellowstone's unusual beauty was forged by volcanic heat; heat from humanity could be its undoing. 
Written by Marguerite Holloway. Photographs and time-lapse video by Josh Haner. They went to America's oldest national park to capture how climate change is altering the landscape and ecosystem. Map by Derek Watkins. 
Credit: MARGUERITE HOLLOWAY and JOSH HANER; . 
Photograph 
Right, trees damaged by beetles near Avalanche Peak. Temperatures in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem have risen about 2 degrees since 1948, allowing the pest to spread. Far right, new growth in the aftermath of a fire. (A16); Over the next few decades, climate change could make waterways like Sour Creek, left, shallower and warmer. (A16­A17); Elk, far left, have lost forage because drier, hotter summers have changed the way plants become green at different elevations, while invaders like cheatgrass, left, displace native grasses that feed animals like pronghorn antelopes.; The Grand Prismatic Spring from the air, left, and from the ground. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) MAPS: Warming Planet, Vanishing Heritage: How climate change is erasing cultural identity around the world. Earlier articles in this series can be found at nytimes.com. EASTER ISLAND Waves are starting to reach the statues and platforms built by an ancient civilization a thousand years ago. LEBANON Most of the nation's prized cedars could be gone by the end of the century as temperatures rise. SCOTLAND Citizens and scientists on the Orkney Islands are racing to protect thousands of ancient structures from rising seas. (A16-A17); Less and Less Snow: The snow that blankets Yellowstone each winter is a vital part of the park's ecosystem. Scientists predict that by midcentury the snowpack in some areas will decrease sharply. (Source: Climate Impacts Group at the University of Washington) (MAP BY DEREK WATKINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) 
Copyright New York Times Company Nov 23, 2018 
Subject  Ecology; Cold; Buffalo; Native species; Researchers; Elk; Forests; Wolves; Ecosystems; Ecologists; Climate change; National parks; Rain  
Location  United States--US; Lamar Valley  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Yellowstone National Park 712190  
Title  Yellowstone's Eternal Scenes Are Changing Before Our Eyes: [National Desk]  
Author  Holloway, Marguerite; Haner, Josh  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.16  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Nov 23, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2136828888  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2136828888?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Nov 23, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-23  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 39 of 236 



In India, a Push to Build a Better Air-Conditioner: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Friedman, Lisa; Tabuchi, Hiroko; Mock, Jillian.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]19 Nov 2018: B.3. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=In+India%2C+a+Push+to+Build+a+Better+Air­Conditioner%3A+%5BBusiness%2FFinancial+Desk%5D&title=New+York+Times&issn=03624331&date=2018-11­19&volume=&issue=&spage=B.3&au=Friedman%2C+Lisa%3BTabuchi%2C+Hiroko%3BMock%2C+Jillian&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Welcome to the Climate Fwd: newsletter. The New York Times climate team emails readers once a week with stories and insights about climate change. Sign up here to get it in your inbox. 
By Lisa Friedman 
As the death toll continues to climb from the most destructive wildfire in California's history, President Trump on Tuesday declared a "major disaster" in the state, paving the way for federal funding to the thousands left homeless by the blaze. "I'm with you all the way," Mr. Trump wrote in a tweet to the victims. Over the weekend, however, he tweeted a series of misleading statements about the cause of California 
wildfires and threatened to withhold federal dollars "because of gross mismanagement." 
Here on the climate desk, Kendra Pierre-Louis found the president's claims oversimplified. You can read her fact-check here. 
And why are there so many wildfires in California, anyway? Kendra found that there are four key ingredients, and as you might suspect, climate change is playing a role. 
Also this week, the International Energy Agency's World Energy Outlook is out, and Brad Plumer gets to the heart of the matter: The rapid rise of renewable energy and a 

decline in coal use, on their own, won't be enough to bend the curve on global warming. 
To do that, Brad notes, governments will have to adopt policies on the national level to further drive down planet-warming greenhouse gas emissions. Carbon dioxide emissions 

are climbing and will continue to do so until 2040, according to the report, unless governments find a way to reduce the need for fossil fuels. That could range from major 
investments in energy efficiency to expanding technologies like carbon capture for coal- and gas-fired power plants. 
Fatih Birol, the executive director of the I.E.A., summed it up: "The world's destiny lies with government decisions." 
Brad also took a deep dive into a government solution on the local level: replacing older diesel-guzzling school buses with electric ones. At $365,000 apiece, he reports, electric 

buses are still pretty expensive. And critics say there are cheaper and faster ways to clean up the atmosphere. But with costs dropping as technologies like battery storage 

improve, excitement about electric buses as a creative answer to reducing emissions is rising. 
And finally, the Keystone XL oil pipeline is back in the news, after a federal judge ruled last week that the Trump administration had failed to explain how allowing the project to 
proceed would affect climate change. 

President Barack Obama in 2015 rejected a permit for the pipeline, which would connect Canadian oil sands to Gulf Coast refineries. One of President Trump's first acts in office 
was to reverse that decision. Now, though, a court is demanding that the administration go back to the drawing board and more fully review the project. 
Coral Davenport and I unpack the ruling here. 

Can we build a better air-conditioner? By Hiroko Tabuchi As incomes grow and more people move to cities, and as global temperatures rise, the world is buying more air-conditioners. And as more air-conditioners spin up -- you 
guessed it -- they cause more warming, both through the energy they consume and the gases they release. 
In fact, the number of air-conditioning units worldwide could surge to 4.5 billion by 2050 from about 1.2 billion today, a new report warns. By the end of the century, household air-conditioning alone could elevate global temperatures by as much as a half-degree Celsius. Richard Branson, the British entrepreneur and Virgin Group founder, hopes to break that vicious cycle. This week he helped to initiate the Global Cooling Prize, a $3 million 
technology competition that aims to spur more efficient air-conditioning technology. 
The prize aims to "literally help save to save the world from the disaster it is facing," Mr. Branson said on a brief call with reporters ahead of the program's formal opening in New Delhi, India, on Monday. (The Indian government is a partner.) 
"Most air-conditioners, at their core, are still running on 100-year-old vapor compression technology," Mr. Branson said. "There's been no incentive for innovation." He added that the prize isn't open only to start-ups, but people from all walks of life. 
The prize initially offers 10 chosen contenders $200,000 to build prototypes of more efficient cooling methods. That technology will then be tested in a lab as well as in 10 Indian apartments in midsummer. 
"We think the world needs air-conditioners that are five times more efficient," said Iain Campbell of the Rocky Mountain Institute, a Colorado-based nonprofit that wrote the new report and is managing the prize. 
One start-up, for example -- SkyCool Systems, based in Palo Alto, Calif. -- is working on a literally out-of-this-world technology that beams the heat of the sun away from the earth and into space. The technology would take advantage of the ability of infrared light to pass through the atmosphere at certain wavelengths. 
There are also more down-to-earth ideas. As my colleague Kendra Pierre-Louis wrote this year, experts say governments should also set efficiency standards for air-conditioners and provide incentives for manufacturers and buyers. 
There has been some good news. As part of an agreement known as the Kigali amendment to the Montreal Protocol, some countries are working to phase out refrigerants that are also potent greenhouse gases. 
One thing you can do: Use the dishwasher 
By Jillian Mock 
If you're trying to save a little water in the kitchen, sit back, relax and let your dishwasher do all the work. 
It might seem counterintuitive, but it's true. Most dishwashers today need much less water for a full load than you'd use running your kitchen faucet for just a few minutes. 
That's because dishwashers have come a long way. Today, the average machine certified by the government's Energy Star program uses 3.5 gallons or less per cycle, according to Einav Henenson, deputy area director for the Arizona Department of Water Resources. That's down from about 15 gallons per load 20 years ago. 
Even the most efficient kitchen faucets move 1.5 gallons of water every minute, Ms. Henenson said. So, if you leave the tap open for just three minutes while hand-washing that huge pile of dishes, you'll use more water than the machine would have. 
Plus, you could have been doing something more fun than washing dishes. 
To really save water, run the dishwasher only when full and resist the temptation to rinse every dish, plate and cup in the sink before loading. Most modern dishwashers can handle those sticky, crusty food remnants just fine, said Peter Brostrom, a water efficiency manager for the California Water Resources Control Board. If your machine can't, scrape all those unsavory bits into the trash instead of sending them down the drain. 
What if you don't have a dishwasher? Try the two-bucket method: Fill a sink with soap and hot water. If you have a double sink, fill the other side with clear water. If you don't, use a plastic tub. Wash all the dishes in the soap, then rinse. 
Good dishwashing habits might not make a huge dent in your overall home water use. Taking a shower and washing clothes are both more water-intensive. But anything that saves water also saves energy and reduces your carbon emissions. 
We'd love your feedback on this newsletter. Please email thoughts and suggestions to climateteam@nytimes.com . 
If you like what we're doing, please spread the word and send this to your friends. You can sign up here to get our newsletter delivered to your inbox each week. 
And be sure to check out our full assortment of free newsletters from The Times. 
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 
Photograph 
Richard Branson helped initiate the $3 million air-conditioning competition. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBYN BECK/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) Copyright New York Times Company Nov 19, 2018 
Subject 	Air conditioning; 
Emissions; 

Carbon; 
Newsletters; 
Presidents; 
Energy; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Climate change; 
Efficiency; 
Pipelines 


Location 	Montreal Quebec Canada; New York; India; Arizona; Colorado; California; Palo Alto California 
People 	Trump, Donald J; Birol, Fatih; Obama, Barack 
Company / organization 	Name: New York Times Co 
NAICS:  511110, 511120, 515112, 515120;  
Name:  Department of Water Resources-Arizona  
NAICS:  924110;  
Name:  International Energy Agency  
NAICS:  541720, 926130, 928120;  
Name:  Rocky Mountain Institute  
NAICS:  541711;  
Name:  Virgin Group  
NAICS:  551112  

URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/14/climate/california-wildfires-and-reinventing-air-conditioners-climate-newsletter.html  
Title  In India, a Push to Build a Better Air-Conditioner: [Business/Financial Desk]  
Author  Friedman, Lisa; Tabuchi, Hiroko; Mock, Jillian  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.3  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Nov 19, 2018  
column  Climate Fwd:  
Section  B  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2135010265  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2135010265?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Nov 19, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-19  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 40 of 236 



Trump Says Ex-Lobbyist Is His Pick For E.P.A.: [National Desk] 
Friedman, Lisa.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]17 Nov 2018: A.12. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Trump+Says+Ex­Lobbyist+Is+His+Pick+For+E.P.A.%3A+%5BNational+Desk%5D&title=New+York+Times&issn=03624331&date=2018-11­17&volume=&issue=&spage=A.12&au=Friedman%2C+Lisa&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd: , our email newsletter. 
WASHINGTON -- President Trump on Friday said he intends to nominate Andrew R. Wheeler, a former coal lobbyist, to be the permanent administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. 
The E.P.A. has been at the center of the Trump administration's agenda to reduce the regulations on industry, and Mr. Wheeler has been instrumental in seeing through rollbacks of major environmental policies. The changes include proposals to weaken the Obama administration's signature policies to combat climate change, including a sweeping regulation on emissions from coal-fired power plants and a rule reining in pollution from vehicle tailpipes. 
Mr. Trump made the announcement about Mr. Wheeler while leading a Presidential Medal of Freedom ceremony at the White House. Referring to Mr. Wheeler, he said, "Acting administrator, who I tell you is going to be made permanent, he's done a fantastic job and I want to congratulate him." 
In an interview at E.P.A. headquarters earlier in the day, Mr. Wheeler, who has served as acting head of the agency since Scott Pruitt resigned in July amid federal ethics inquiries, said he wanted the job. 
"At this point, yes, I would like to be nominated to be the administrator," Mr. Wheeler said in the interview, before Mr. Trump's announcement. "I think I'm making a difference. This is a transitional time for the agency. We've started a number of initiatives that I'd like to see through to conclusion." 
Mr. Wheeler joined the E.P.A. in April as deputy administrator. After Mr. Pruitt's departure, Mr. Trump appointed him to lead the agency on an interim basis. 
Since then, Mr. Wheeler has distinguished himself among top officials in the Trump administration for his low-key, under-the-radar style, even as he has worked diligently and methodically to advance Mr. Trump's deregulatory agenda. 
While Mr. Pruitt, the former Oklahoma attorney general, gained notice for his political ambition and close ties to the president, he also faced allegations that he used his office to seek special favors, such as employment opportunities for his wife, and that he overspent on personal security and travel. 
And while Mr. Pruitt won Mr. Trump's praise for putting forth dozens of policy moves designed to tear down former President Barack Obama's environmental agenda, many of those have since been challenged or struck down by the courts. 
Mr. Wheeler, on the other hand, has led the professional life of a technocrat, avoiding the limelight in favor of carefully advancing his boss's agenda. Both his supporters and critics say Mr. Wheeler's history as a coal lobbyist, former E.P.A. official and senior Senate staffer could make him far more formidable at effectively advancing Mr. Trump's deregulation policies, while avoiding the political spotlight or ethical pitfalls that derailed his predecessor. 
"I would say he's been absolutely as relentless and faithful to the agenda as Pruitt was," said Joseph Goffman, who previously served as chief counsel to E.P.A.'s air chief in the Obama administration. 
Mr. Wheeler began his career at the E.P.A. in the 1990s before working in the Senate for more than a decade with James Inhofe, Republican of Oklahoma. Senator Inhofe is one of the most prominent members of Congress who denies the established science of human-caused climate change. 
Mr. Wheeler later became a lobbyist at the Faegre Baker Daniels consulting firm, where his top client was the coal magnate Robert E. Murray, chief executive of the Murray Energy. Over a period of eight years, Mr. Murray paid Mr. Wheeler's firm more than $2.7 million. 
Mr. Murray, a champion of the coal industry and a strong supporter of Mr. Trump, lobbied senior officials at the White House last year with a wish list of actions he wanted to see the administration take. The items included withdrawing to the Paris climate agreement and rolling back Mr. Obama's signature climate change regulation, the Clean Power Plan, which was designed to reduce planet-warming emissions from coal plants and encourage renewable energy. 
During Mr. Wheeler's confirmation hearing to be E.P.A. deputy administrator, and later when he became acting administrator, he acknowledged working with Mr. Murray to fight the Clean Power Plan. But he said he had no substantive involvement with the memos that Mr. Murray wrote outlining his regulatory wish list. Mr. Wheeler also said he did not lobby E.P.A. on Mr. Murray's behalf after the 2016 election, knowing he might join the Trump administration. 
Senator Inhofe said this week that, should Mr. Wheeler be nominated to lead the agency, he would expect the confirmation to be straightforward. "I know there is no opposition to him," the senator said. "He is of course the favorite of the president, and of mine." 
Mr. Wheeler won Senate confirmation to the No. 2 position at the agency on a mostly party-line vote, with three Democrats supporting him. It is not clear that he will have unanimous Republican support to be administrator. 
Some environmentalists said Friday that Mr. Wheeler's past lobbying on behalf of the coal industry should disqualify him from leading an agency with a mission of protecting human health and the environment. Some Democrats in the Senate have also expressed reservations. 
Senator Tom Carper of Delaware, the leading Democrat on the Environment and Public Works Committee, which oversees the E.P.A., said this week that, while he liked Mr. Wheeler and considered him an improvement over Mr. Pruitt, he was not ready to support his formal ascent to head of the agency. 
"We need to make progress, especially in reducing the carbon sources from the biggest source in the environment, the mobile fleet," Senator Carper said, referring to the E.P.A. plan to loosen auto emissions standards. 
Mr. Wheeler in the Friday morning interview cited the plan to relax auto emissions rules as one that he wanted to see through as administrator, as well as his replacement of the Clean Power Plan for coal-fired power plants, and a clean-water rule that clarifies which wetlands and small waterways are protected by the Clean Water Act. 
When Mr. Wheeler joined the E.P.A., he found an agency in turmoil. Morale was at a low and career biologists, chemists and others were leaving. 
Mr. Pruitt's lawyer, Cleta Mitchell, declined to comment. 
Mr. Wheeler's first move as acting administrator was to cast off Mr. Pruitt's personal security team. He also made a point of inviting career employees into policy briefings, and visiting all 10 of the agency's regional offices, something Mr. Pruitt did not do. 
The shadow of Mr. Pruitt still looms over Mr. Wheeler, who said in the interview Friday that he preferred not to discuss his former boss. "I try not to talk about Scott Pruitt or the differences between us," he said. But, he added, "I get a lot of thank-yous from the staff just for being with them, talking to them." 
For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. 
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 

Photograph 
Andrew R. Wheeler Copyright New York Times Company Nov 17, 2018 
Subject 	Bills; 

Coal-fired power plants; 
Climate change; 
User groups 


Location 	Delaware; Oklahoma 
People 	Trump, Donald J; Inhofe, James M; Pruitt, Scott; Obama, Barack 
Company / organization 	Name: Twitter Inc 

NAICS: 519130; 

Name: Congress NAICS: 921120; 
Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA NAICS: 924110; 
Name: Senate 

NAICS: 921120 


URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/16/climate/trump-andrew-wheeler-epa.html 
Title 	Trump Says Ex-Lobbyist Is His Pick For E.P.A.: [National Desk] 
Author 	Friedman, Lisa 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.12 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Nov 17, 2018 
Section 	A 
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2134143401  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2134143401?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Nov 17, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-17  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 41 of 236 


Clean Energy Is Surging. Just Not Fast Enough to Fix Global Warming.: [Foreign Desk] 
Plumer, Brad.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]13 Nov 2018: A.7. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Clean+Energy+Is+Surging.+Just+Not+Fast+Enough+to+Fix+Global+Warming.% 11-13&volume=&issue=&spage=A.7&au=Plumer%2C+Brad&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd: , our email newsletter. 
WASHINGTON -- Over the next two decades, the world's energy system will undergo a huge transformation. Wind and solar power are poised to become dominant sources of 
electricity. China's once-relentless appetite for coal is set to wane. The amount of oil we use to fuel our cars could peak and decline. 
But there's a catch: The global march toward clean energy still isn't happening fast enough to avoid dangerous global warming, at least not unless governments put forceful new 

policy measures in place to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. 

That's the conclusion of the International Energy Agency, which on Monday published its annual World Energy Outlook, a 661-page report that forecasts global energy trends to 
2040. These projections are especially difficult right now because the world's energy markets, which usually evolve gradually, are going through a major upheaval. 
Here are some of the report's major themes: 
Wind and solar are making gains 
Around the world, the electricity sector "is experiencing its most dramatic transformation since its creation more than a century ago," the report said. One big factor is the rapid 

growth of wind and solar power. 

Over the past five years, the average cost of solar power has declined 65 percent and the cost of onshore wind has fallen 15 percent. The energy agency predicts those prices 
will keep tumbling as technology improves and governments scale back subsidies. Solar plants are becoming well-placed to outcompete new coal plants almost everywhere. 
The agency sees renewable power supplying 40 percent of the world's electricity by 2040, up from 25 percent today. Even that forecast could prove conservative: In the past, 

the agency has underestimated the speed at which wind and solar power proliferate. 

"Our solar expectations are about 20 percent higher than they were last year, both because of new policies in China and India and because the costs are coming down so fast," 
said Fatih Birol, the agency's executive director. 
The report warns, however, that many countries will need to retool their grids to manage the output from wind and solar plants, which run intermittently. That will mean 

overhauling rules for how electricity markets operate, relying on batteries and gas plants for grid flexibility and exploring new tools like hydrogen storage. 
Coal's boom days are over 
For decades, developing countries like China and India have turned to coal as the cheapest, easiest way to power their economies and lift themselves out of poverty. It's a big 

reason carbon dioxide emissions have skyrocketed. 
That's quickly changing. 
China, which burns half the world's coal, is making heavy investments in wind, solar, nuclear and natural gas, spurred in part by concerns about air pollution from its coal plants. 

The agency now projects that China's coal consumption will plateau around 2025, with renewables overtaking coal as the country's biggest source of electricity by 2040. 

And, while countries in Southeast Asia and elsewhere are still drawing up plans to build new coal plants, the agency expects this frenzy of construction to slow sharply after 2020. But don't expect coal to disappear altogether. While the era of rapid coal growth is fading, the agency projects that global coal consumption could stay flat for decades. One 
reason for that: The average coal plant in Asia is less than 15 years old (compared to about 41 years in the United States). Those plants will keep polluting for decades, unless countries decide to retire them early or develop technology to capture and bury their emissions. 
Oil won't peak for a while yet Even as the world puts hundreds of millions of new cars on the road, we're increasingly using less oil to fuel them. The report projects that global oil use for cars will peak by the mid-2020s as countries ratchet up their fuel-economy standards and deploy more electric vehicles. 
That doesn't mean overall oil use will decline, however. Only about one-quarter of the world's oil is used to fuel passenger cars. The rest is used to fuel freight trucks, ships, and airplanes; for heating; and to make plastics and other petrochemicals. 
Those sectors haven't seen the same improvements in efficiency. As a result, the agency expects global oil demand to keep rising through 2040, led by developing countries. 
Climate goals remain out of reach 
Even with the impressive recent gains for renewable energy, the world is still far from solving global warming. Global carbon dioxide emissions rose 1.6 percent last year and are on track to climb again this year. The report projects that emissions will keep rising slowly until 2040. 
One reason: Carbon-free sources like wind, solar and nuclear power aren't yet growing fast enough to keep up with rising global energy demand, particularly in places like India and Southeast Asia. That means fossil fuel use keeps growing to fill the gap. 
For this to change, nations will have to enact sweeping new policies, like investing in energy efficiency to slow demand growth, curbing methane leaks from oil and gas operations, and developing carbon capture technology for existing fossil fuel power plants and cement factories. 
Governments will play a key role: The report notes that the world invests $2 trillion annually in energy infrastructure, and 70 percent of that is directed by state-owned companies or regulators. "That tells me that our energy destiny will rely heavily on government decisions in the next two decades," Mr. Birol said. 
For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. 
Copyright New York Times Company Nov 13, 2018 
Subject 	Solar energy; 
Electricity; 
Consumption; 
Fossil fuels; 
Clean technology; 

Emissions; 

Carbon dioxide; 
Global warming; 
Developing countries--LDCs; 
Coal-fired power plants; 
Alternative energy sources; 

Energy industry; 

Industrial plant emissions; 

Nuclear power plants; 

Natural gas 


Location 	Southeast Asia; United States--US; India; China; Asia 
People 	Birol, Fatih 
Company / organization 	Name: Twitter Inc 

NAICS: 519130; 

Name: International Energy Agency NAICS: 541720, 926130, 928120 
URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/12/climate/global-energy-forecast.html 
Title 	Clean Energy Is Surging. Just Not Fast Enough to Fix Global Warming.: [Foreign Desk] 
Author 	Plumer, Brad 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.7 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Nov 13, 2018 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2132185084  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2132185084?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Nov 13, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-13  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 42 of 236 


Ruling by Federal Judge Blocks Work on Pipeline In a Setback for Trump: [National Desk] 
Friedman, Lisa; Davenport, Coral.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]10 Nov 2018: A.13. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Ruling+by+Federal+Judge+Blocks+Work+on+Pipeline+In+a+Setback+for+Trum 11-10&volume=&issue=&spage=A.13&au=Friedman%2C+Lisa%3BDavenport%2C+Coral&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd: , our email newsletter. 
WASHINGTON -- As the Trump administration has moved aggressively to roll back environmental protections and speed up oil and coal projects, it has repeatedly been blocked by courts finding that the administration did not follow longstanding rules in making its sweeping changes. 
Now, a federal judge has issued a repudiation of one of President Trump's first acts as president, his decision to allow the disputed Keystone XL oil pipeline to proceed, saying that the administration failed to present a "reasoned explanation" for the move and "simply discarded" the effect the project would have on climate change. 
The decision could thrust the White House into a contentious new legal battle over climate change. 
The judge's finding quickly drew fire from Mr. Trump, who has elevated the pipeline as a prominent symbol of his administration's effort to encourage fossil fuel use. "It was a political decision made by a judge," said Mr. Trump on Friday, speaking to reporters at the White House. "I think it's a disgrace." 
The ruling, by Judge Brian Morris of United States District Court for Montana, blocked construction on the 1,179-mile pipeline, which would carry 800,000 barrels a day of petroleum from the Canadian oil sands to the Gulf Coast and has, over the past decade, become a lighting rod in broader political battles over energy, the environment and climate change. While experts have long said that the substantive impact of the pipeline on jobs, climate change and the nation's energy economy is small, it has nonetheless taken on an outsize prominence in the national discussion. 
Judge Morris' decision echoes a common theme in many judicial rejections of Trump administration policies, particularly on environmental issues. In short, the court said, the administration failed to follow established rules and procedures for decisions like these. Specifically, it failed to provide a fact-based analysis justifying its actions. 
Judge Morris, an Obama appointee, didn't respond to a request for comment on the president's remarks. 
"This has been typical of the Trump administration," said Mark Squillace, an expert on environmental law at the University of Colorado Law School. "They haven't done a good job dealing with the factual findings of the previous administration. The courts have been clear that you can change your position, even if it's for a political reason. But you have to show your work, how you got from Point A to Point B." 
The decision leaves plenty of room for the Trump administration or TransCanada, the company building the pipeline, to appeal. Analysts said that if it did so armed with a deeply researched analysis arguing its position, it could well reverse the finding. 
"It's feasible, if they do the work, and show their work, and they explain, with serious, fact-based analysis, why they're choosing a different outcome, that the courts would uphold it," Mr. Squillace said. 
When President Barack Obama rejected the Keystone permit in 2015, he was weeks away from negotiating an international global warming accord in Paris, and he sought to use the move as a symbol of his global leadership on climate change. He argued the pipeline would undercut United States leadership in curbing global reliance on fossil fuels. 
Two days after Mr. Trump took office, though, he made Keystone a symbol of the post-Obama era of climate policy and energy, signing an executive order overturning Mr. Obama's rejection of the pipeline. That move signaled that Mr. Trump would be moving forward with an aggressive effort to more substantively dismantle Mr. Obama's climate change legacy -- including withdrawing the United States from the Paris accord. 
In saying that no work can go forward until the government more fully reviews the pipeline's environmental impact, the ruling further stokes the political battles over climate change by a president who dismisses mainstream science and whose administration is also seeking to block a landmark lawsuit on behalf of children asking the government to stop the rise of planet-warming gases. 
Construction on many portions of the pipeline has already been competed. At issue is the final phase, a leg that would run from Steele City, Neb., through Montana to Canada. 
Still, environmental groups hailed the move as a victory in the battle over Keystone, which has spanned more than a decade. "Keystone XL would be a disaster for the climate and for the people and wildlife of this country," Jackie Prange, senior attorney at the Natural Resources Defense Council, said in a statement Thursday. 
The oil industry characterized the move as the latest turn of the screw in the long-running legal battle. "Pipelines like KXL are the backbone of our nation's energy infrastructure and one of the most environmentally sound ways to transport the fuel and petroleum products that power America," said Robin Rorick, vice president of midstream operations for the American Petroleum Industry, which lobbies for oil companies. 
"The pipeline has passed every environmental review conducted for it. In fact, a total of six assessments by both the Obama and Trump administrations concluded that KXL is safe to build," Mr. Rorick said. "Calls to conduct identical environmental reviews makes no sense and are a waste of tax dollars." 
TransCanada did not respond to a request for comment. Construction could have begun as early as next year. 
Judge Morris found that in reviving Keystone, the Trump administration did not adequately account for how a decline in oil prices might affect the pipeline's viability. In addition, the government's analysis did not fully study the potential for oil spills or the cumulative effects of greenhouse gas emissions from the Keystone pipeline in combination with a pipeline approved in 2009, the Alberta Clipper. 
The ruling specifically takes the Trump administration to task for failing to address the Obama administration's arguments about climate change, including the need to keep rising global temperatures at safe levels as a basis for denying the pipeline permit. Rather, the government declared it was embracing a policy shift toward "energy security, economic development and infrastructure." 
The judge said an administration had the right to reverse a previous policy, but still must back up its reason for doing so with facts. "The Department instead simply discarded prior factual findings related to climate change to support its course reversal," the judge wrote. 
He cited a United States Supreme Court ruling that noted, "An agency cannot simply disregard contrary or inconvenient factual determinations that it made in the past, any more than it can ignore inconvenient facts when it writes on a blank slate." 
Energy and policy analysts say that the pitched battle over Keystone is out of scale to the project's actual significance as an environmental threat or an engine of the economy. The pipeline will have relatively little effect, they say, on climate change, oil production in the Canadian oil sands, gasoline prices or the overall job market in the United States. 
"Keystone is not a very large issue in the context of energy or climate change policy for the U.S.," said Robert Stavins, the head of the environmental economics department at Harvard University. 
He noted that, by comparison, Mr. Trump's moves to roll back Environmental Protection Agency rules on carbon dioxide pollution from tailpipes and power plants, and his decision to withdraw the United States from the Paris climate change accord, will have a profound impact on the emission of gases that warm the planet when they enter the atmosphere. 
Construction of the pipeline would also be insignificant in terms of advancing Mr. Trump's professed goal of achieving "energy dominance" for the United States, said Mr. Stavins, saying that its purpose is to help move oil produced in Canada to Gulf Coast ports where it can be exported to the global market. 
An analysis published by the State Department during the Obama administration estimated that Keystone would support 42,000 temporary jobs for two years -- about 3,900 of them in construction and the rest through indirect support, like food service -- but only 35 permanent jobs. Similarly, the government concluded that the increase in carbon dioxide pollution associated with burning the oil transported through the pipeline would amount to less than 1 percent of the total greenhouse gas emissions in the United States. 
For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. 
Photograph 
Protesting the Keystone XL pipeline in Lincoln, Neb., last year. The pipeline would link Canadian oil sands to the Gulf of Mexico. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATI HARNIK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) Copyright New York Times Company Nov 10, 2018 
Subject  Greenhouse gases; Emissions; Politics; Oil sands; Presidents; Energy; Environmental policy; Greenhouse effect; Industrial plant emissions; Employment; Climate change; Pipelines; Judges & magistrates  
Location  Montana; United States--US; Canada; Gulf of Mexico  
People  Trump, Donald J; Obama, Barack  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Harvard University 611310;  
Name: NAICS:  Twitter Inc 519130;  
Name: NAICS:  Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 924110;  

Name:  Natural Resources Defense Council  
NAICS:  813312;  
Name:  University of Colorado  

NAICS:  611310;  
Name:  Supreme Court-US  
NAICS:  922110  

URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/09/climate/judge-blocks-keystone-pipeline.html  
Title  Ruling by Federal Judge Blocks Work on Pipeline In a Setback for Trump: [National Desk]  
Author  Friedman, Lisa; Davenport, Coral  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.13  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Nov 10, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2131504520  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2131504520?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Nov 10, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-10  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 43 of 236 



As Winter Approaches, India's Seasonal Smog Chokes the Nation: [Foreign Desk] 
Schultz, Kai; Gettleman, Jeffrey; Kumar, Hari; Venkataraman, Ayesha.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]31 Oct 2018: A.4. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=As+Winter+Approaches%2C+India%27s+Seasonal+Smog+Chokes+the+Nation% 10­31&volume=&issue=&spage=A.4&au=Schultz%2C+Kai%3BGettleman%2C+Jeffrey%3BKumar%2C+Hari%3BVenkataraman%2C+Ayesha&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&r 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
NEW DELHI -- A toxic fog is creeping over New Delhi. Children trudge to school with plastic masks strapped to their faces. Sports events are canceled. Eyes burn. Throats itch. 
Chests heave. 
It's the dreaded pollution season in India, when the amount of vehicle fumes, dust and smoke from agricultural fires spikes to levels so high that experts say children breathing 
this air could cause permanent brain damage. 

Agra. Lucknow. Varanasi. New Delhi. India's most fabled cities are now among the world's most polluted. According to some recent rankings, India holds nine of the top 10 

spots. In a sign of how many people -- especially the elite -- are distressed about this, shops in Delhi now sell "pollution guard" sunscreen and shampoo. 
Toxic air has become a global menace that kills seven million people each year, the United Nations Environment Program said in a bleak report released Tuesday. The bulk of 
these deaths are in the Asia Pacific region, it said. 

This week the World Health Organization is holding what it calls the first global conference on air pollution and health at its headquarters in Geneva. 

Air pollution has become the "new tobacco," its director general, Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, wrote in an op-ed last week. "The world has turned the corner on tobacco," 
it said. "Now it must do the same for the 'new tobacco': the toxic air that billions breathe." 
In its new report, the United Nations Environment Program outlined 25 measures that could easily reduce air pollution (which also contributes to climate change). One tactic: 

stopping the burning of agricultural waste like the countless farm fires sweeping across northern India right now. 

While data from across India shows that hazardous air pollution continues to rise, progress is being made. The central government, for the first time, is spending more than 
$150 million to dissuade farmers from burning their fields. 
Take the village of Bishanpur Channa, in the northern state of Punjab. Every November, for as long as anybody can remember, Bishanpur Channa's farmers burned dried-up rice 

stalks to clear the land for the next season's wheat crop. 

The sky became so sooty that the afternoons resembled evenings. The smoke drifted nearly 200 miles southeast, blanketing New Delhi. Dalbir Singh Kaleka, a farmer with a 
snow-white beard, said he and his neighbors put up with the discomfort because burning was cheap and easy. 
"We all did it," he said. 
But this November could be different. Mr. Kaleka and his fellow farmers have been buffeted with public service messages, including a new hit song, "Don't Burn the Stubble 

Brother, Don't Burn." 

More persuasive, perhaps, is the $156 million chunk that the Indian government has set aside for subsidizing alternatives to crop burning, such as renting big steel machines 
that push the excess rice stalks into the ground to act as a natural fertilizer. 
This year, Mr. Singh said he and many of his neighbors were trying to burn as little as possible. "Look, I do not want to pollute," he said. "My son tells me, 'Even if you lose 

money, we should save India's image."' 

Clearly, Indian government agencies are capable of taking bold steps. Beyond the subsidies in Punjab, this month the authorities shut down the last coal plant near New Delhi, 
and they have rerouted traffic and banned some dirty fuel sources. 
But Indian environmentalists say their government is lost. At the same time it passes some measures to cut pollution, it passes others that fling open the doors to dirty air. 
This year, the central government proposed removing environmental clearances for construction projects up to 50,000 square meters, or about 540,000 square feet, more than 

doubling the previous threshold. Dust from such projects is a major polluter; the new policies would surely create more. 
Like many developing countries, India is walking a precarious line, trying to spur infrastructure, industry and economic growth, all of which take their toll on the environment. 
Unlike in China, where a communist government has responded to its own toxic air by slapping criminal charges on polluters, India's political system is much freer and messier, 
a sprawling democracy that often shies away from using the stick. 

Last week, when a group of civil servants and environmentalists took a tour of West Delhi, they found construction sites managed by government agencies among the most 
flagrant polluters. At a new subway station, the overseers had not even put up proper barriers or sprinkled water to keep the dust down. 
"They are taking the undue advantage of being government organizations," said V. Selvarajan, secretary of Green Circle, a group that works on environmental issues. 

The subway system was ordered to pay a fine of 500,000 rupees, or around $7,000. 
In the coming weeks, air pollution here is expected to hit a choking peak. Winter will slow down the winds, meaning that still air and cooler temperatures will trap the soot and 
smoke that rises up from India's incredibly crowded, growing cities. 

For those in the pollution-mask business, these are profitable days. 

Four years ago, when Jai Dhar Gupta, an Indian entrepreneur who went to the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, started selling pollution masks, he was lucky to 
move 200 a day. 
Now, he says, his company, Nirvana Being, sells thousands in a single day. 
"We've seen online orders coming from villages, the northeast, Goa, places I don't even know," Mr. Gupta said. But it makes sense, he said, because "this is a pan-India 

problem." 

So many of India's larger failures feed into the dirty air. Lacking a good system for waste disposal, for instance, many people simply burn their trash, sending plastic, rubber and 
other toxins into the air. 
The situation is especially bad in northern India, where the Himalayas form a towering barrier that keeps clouds of dirty air parked over some of the country's biggest urban 

areas. But data shows how bad the air is in just about every major Indian city. 
In Chennai, on the southern coast, average annual concentrations of PM 2.5, insidiously small particles that scientists estimate have killed millions, have quadrupled in the last 

three years to 105 micrograms per cubic meter from 24, according to data from the first 10 months of each year gathered by the United States Consulate. Hundreds of miles 
north, in Kolkata, the numbers nearly doubled to 78 micrograms per cubic meter from 40 during the same period. 
The latest figures are eight to 10 times the level of hazardous particles that the World Health Organization considers acceptable. 
The air in Mumbai, India's seaside commercial capital with some 20 million residents, is also getting worse. With two smoggy months still to go, average annual concentrations 

of PM 2.5 shot up nearly 50 percent in the last three years. 

Experts blame a mix of factors, including Mumbai's thickening traffic, noxious gases from landfill fires, construction dust and emissions from coal plants in the suburbs. A few 
local groups are trying to put pressure on the government to get serious, but they say the authorities are clueless. 
"They're trying to build more vertical roads, coastal roads, increase car traffic and put less emphasis on public transport," said Ashok Datar, chairman of the Mumbai 

Environmental Social Network. "It's like we're investing in emission." 

India's Supreme Court routinely steps in, like in a recent order restricting firecracker usage during the coming Diwali holiday. Its orders are not quite ignored, but they usually 
are not vigorously enforced either. 
In Punjab, home to several million farmers, thousands of pounds of carbon dioxide have typically been released into the air every burning season. 
But this year, there is reason for hope, said S. S. Matharu, a government engineer working for the Punjab Pollution Control Board. In just two years, Mr. Matharu said, the 

number of fires dropped by nearly 70 percent after stiff fines, advances in farming technology, and aggressive outreach in villages and on social media, including the catchy new song. 
"The motherland has birds and other living creatures to feed," the song goes, "don't burn rice straw to choke them to death." 
Described by one farmer as the "most forward village in all of Punjab," Bishanpur Channa has become a model. Many farmers here said that instead of burning they planned to 
use machines like one called the Happy Seeder, which mixes excess straw into the dirt. 

"Our objective is to reduce pollution," said Harinder Singh, 45, who yells when he talks. 

But in poorer villages people seemed less inclined to change their ways. About 20 miles down the road, a group of farmers who had gathered near a field offered a list of 
grievances. 
A government program that subsidizes harvesting equipment is still too expensive, they said. Government agents promise new equipment and then disappear. Politicians seem 

less interested in the poorer farmers, because their plots are so small. 
Gurmeet Singh, a gangly young farmer, said that lowering pollution was a nice thought, but that with no money to spare, "the whole village will burn." 
As night fell, he walked out to his rice fields. His plot was littered with dry straw. He bent down and struck a match. 
Soon enough, clouds of smoke lifted into the sky. 
Credit: KAI SCHULTZ, JEFFREY GETTLEMAN, HARI KUMAR and AYESHA VENKATARAMAN; Kai Schultz, Jeffrey Gettleman and Hari Kumar reported from New Delhi, and Ayesha 

Venkataraman from Mumbai, India. 

Photograph 
The India Gate Was Obscured by Smog in New Delhi On Monday. Air Quality has Worsened Throughout the Nation, and Experts Warn That the Conditions Could Cause Permanent Brain Damage in Children. (Photograph by Anushree Fadnavis/Reuters); Men Burning Fields in Punjab State. The Practice, Though Common Each Fall, Is Increasingly Frowned Upon. (Photograph by Rebecca Conway for the New York Times) 
Copyright New York Times Company Oct 31, 2018 
Subject Farmers; Brain damage; 
Environmentalists;  
Seasons;  
Rice;  
Social networks;  
Air pollution;  
Tobacco;  
Outdoor air quality;  
Climate change;  
Towns  
Location  India; Mumbai India  
Company / organization  Name: United Nations Environment Programme  
NAICS: 813312, 928120  
Title  As Winter Approaches, India's Seasonal Smog Chokes the Nation: [Foreign Desk]  
Author  Schultz, Kai; Gettleman, Jeffrey; Kumar, Hari; Venkataraman, Ayesha  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.4  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Oct 31, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2127106519  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2127106519?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Oct 31, 2018  
Last updated  2018-10-31  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 44 of 236 



The Best Way to Fight Climate Change: [Editorial] 
New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]30 Oct 2018: A.22. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=The+Best+Way+to+Fight+Climate+Change%3A+%5BEditorial%5D&title=New 10-30&volume=&issue=&spage=A.22&au=&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Will voters in Washington State breathe new life into the idea of taxing carbon emissions? Plenty of people worried about the earth's future certainly hope so. 
Climate scientists and economists have long argued that the single best way to slow global warming is to put a price on greenhouse gas emissions from fossil fuels and raise that price over time, thus creating a sensible market incentive to reduce emissions and invest in cleaner energy sources. Carbon pricing was also high on the list of urgent recommendations of the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which warned in a major report this month that without swift action to control emissions the world will begin suffering global warming's worst consequences -- including, but not limited to, the displacement of millions of people by drought and sea-level rise -- as early as 2040, much sooner than previously forecast. 
It is thus encouraging that in this time of torpor and climate denial at the highest levels of the federal government, voters in the state of Washington will soon be given the chance to adopt, by initiative, a carbon pricing plan that would charge polluters like refineries a fee for emitting greenhouse gases. This would be what economists call a Pigovian tax, after the British economist Arthur Pigou. In this case, the fee would factor in the now unaccounted for costs of more frequent and intense hurricanes, wildfires, droughts and other natural disasters linked to climate change. In the words of George Frampton, a senior environmental adviser to Bill Clinton and co-founder of a group that favors carbon taxes, Partnership for Responsible Growth, it's an overdue stab at "honestly pricing carbon," which industry has until now been able to hurl into the atmosphere pretty much for free. 
Polling so far suggests a close vote. Opponents of the measure, including such big oil companies as BP and Chevron, have raised more than $25 million to get people to vote no; in addition, Washington voters soundly defeated a carbon tax the last time it appeared on the ballot, in 2016. But other powerful forces, including Bill Gates and Michael Bloomberg, the former New York mayor, have ponied up in support this time. 
[The Opinion section is now on Instagram. Follow us at @nytopinion.] 
If the proposal, Initiative 1631, wins -- as we hope it does -- the result could ripple beyond Washington's boundaries. No state can match California's impressively broad suite of clean-energy programs, but the initiative, if successful, could catapult Jay Inslee, Washington's governor, into the climate leadership role long occupied by the outgoing California governor, Jerry Brown. More important, it could provide a template, or at least valuable lessons, for other states to follow; and (let's dream for a moment) it might even encourage Congress to take action on a national program. 
Initiative 1631 is substantially different from the measure that failed spectacularly two years ago, and which Mr. Inslee voted against. That measure was advertised as revenue-neutral (meaning no net gain to the government). The money raised through carbon taxes would have been mostly returned to state residents through a reduction in the sales tax. This was intended to appeal to conservatives who didn't want the tax to underwrite new government programs, but it turned out that many conservatives, like a lot of others, wanted real programs for their money, not just a tax shift. 
Initiative 1631 aims to do that. On the revenue side, it would impose a $15 per metric ton fee on carbon emissions starting in 2020, increasing by $2 per year until the state's 2035 carbon reduction goals are met. The state estimates that the levy would generate $2.2 billion in its first five years. The initiative's supporters say that gasoline prices would rise about 13 cents a gallon in 2020, and would, overall, cost most citizens about $10 a month. 
As for spending the money, about 70 percent of the proceeds would be invested in projects to accelerate the state's transition from fossil fuels -- public transportation, energy efficiency, wind and solar plants, and so on -- and the rest on protecting forests and streams and shielding low-income ratepayers from higher electricity bills. There are exemptions -- for the state's only operating coal-fired power plant, which is scheduled to close in 2025, and for the state's largest employer, Boeing, which competes in foreign markets. All in all, the initiative covers about 80 percent of Washington's climate-warming emissions. 
Groups that opposed the 2016 initiative, like the Sierra Club, have flocked to this one. As David Roberts has noted in Vox, "Tying the revenue from a dirty-energy tax to clean-energy investments is intuitively appealing." He has also noted, however, that carbon pricing is no cure-all. 
The dream among many carbon-pricing enthusiasts is that a smoothly functioning carbon tax will eliminate the need for messy government regulations like those imposed by the Obama administration after Congress failed to pass a cap-and-trade program. Carbon pricing would help, and could do wonders to drive private investment toward cleaner energy. But it won't eliminate the need for government involvement; as the I.P.C.C. report made clear, rapidly decarbonizing a global economy is a gigantic undertaking, and will require government involvement and an array of responses. 
And in the meantime, of course, and indeed into the foreseeable future, all present strategies to reduce emissions must continue, including the kinds of things Mr. Trump refuses to do -- build out the electric vehicle fleet, reduce emissions from power plants, clamp down on methane pollution from oil and gas wells. 
As of now, about 40 governments around the world, including the European Union and California, have put a price on carbon, some through cap-and-trade programs, with an average price per ton of $8, nowhere near the level the I.P.C.C. thinks necessary (at least $135 a ton by 2030, if not much higher) to cause meaningful reductions. But lately the idea of carbon taxes is showing signs of life in many parts of the world. Portugal launched a carbon tax in 2015, and Chile followed in 2017, and just last week Justin Trudeau, the Canadian prime minister, announced a sweeping plan to tax industrial emitters. 
A yes vote in Washington State would add further momentum -- and possibly focus a few minds in the other Washington. 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram . 
Credit: THE EDITORIAL BOARD 

Illustration 
Drawing (Drawing by Lily Padula) 
Copyright New York Times Company Oct 30, 2018 
Subject 	Clean technology; 

Taxes; 

Environmental tax; 

Energy; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Climate change; 
Fossil fuels; 
Carbon; 
Coal-fired power plants; 
Editorials; 

Refineries; 

Emissions; 

Environmental regulations; 

Initiatives; 
Fines & penalties; 

Pollution control 


Location 	Washington (state) 
People 	Gates, Bill; Inslee, Jay; Bloomberg, Michael 
Company / organization 	Name: Boeing Co 

NAICS: 336411, 336413, 336414; 


Name: Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change NAICS: 541712, 928120 
Title 	The Best Way to Fight Climate Change: [Editorial] 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.22 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Oct 30, 2018 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	General Interest Periodicals--United States 
ISSN 	03624331 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type  Opinions, Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  2126756754  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2126756754?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Oct 30, 2018  
Last updated  2018-10-30  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 45 of 236 


What's On Monday: [Schedule] 
Aridi, Sara.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]29 Oct 2018: C.7. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=What%27s+On+Monday%3A+%5BSchedule%5D&title=New+York+Times&issn= 10-29&volume=&issue=&spage=C.7&au=Aridi%2C+Sara&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 

None available. 

Full Text 
NBC celebrates 15 years of "Wicked" on Broadway. And Alexandra Pelosi breaks out of her liberal shell in a new HBO documentary. 
What's on TV 
A VERY WICKED HALLOWEEN: CELEBRATING 15 YEARS ON BROADWAY 10 p.m. on NBC. Who would have thought that "Wicked" would become so pop-u-lar when it opened on Broadway 15 years ago? At the time, critics weren't impressed. And the production, adapted from the novel by Gregory Maguire, sidestepped Dorothy's familiar tale for that of two witches in Oz: a bubbly blonde, Glinda (originally played by Kristin Chenoweth), and the misunderstood, green-skinned Elphaba (Idina Menzel). Now the musical is the sixth-longest-running show on Broadway and the second-highest grossing. This Halloween-themed concert reunites Ms. Chenoweth and Ms. Menzel and features performances by Ariana Grande, Pentatonix, Adam Lambert and Ledisi. 
OUTSIDE THE BUBBLE: ON THE ROAD WITH ALEXANDRA PELOSI (2018) 8 p.m. on HBO. The documentarian Alexandra Pelosi, daughter of Representative Nancy Pelosi, the House Democratic leader, ventures across the country to meet Americans and discuss topics like guns, abortion and climate change. She visits survivors of the 2017 mass shooting in Sutherland Springs, Tex.; coal miners in Pennsylvania who believe President Trump will secure their jobs; and residents of Charlottesville, Va., where a woman was killed during a white nationalist rally in 2017. "I was indoctrinated into a Democratic Party cult from a very early age," Ms. Pelosi said in an interview with The New York Times. "But I know that's not the only America, and we need to understand the other side." 
BIG CAT TALES 8 p.m. on Animal Planet. This new natural history series dives into the world of lions, leopards and cheetahs in the Masai Mara National Reserve in Kenya. With the help of the wildlife guide Jackson Ole Looseyia, the hosts Jonathan and Angie Scott explore how the animals survive and guard their territory. 
FRONTLINE: THE FACEBOOK DILEMMA (2018) 10 p.m. on PBS (check local listings). This two-part investigation paints an alarming picture of Facebook's influence on global politics and privacy. It explores how the company's reactions to early warnings led to problems like the spread of "fake news" and the misuse of users' personal data. 
What's Streaming 
13 GOING ON 30 (2004) on Amazon, Google Play, Hulu, Vudu and YouTube. Back when Jennifer Garner played a double agent on "Alias," she assumed a very different role in this comedy as the cheerful and naïve Jenna Rink, a 13-year-old who wishes herself into the future and wakes up in her 30-year-old body. (Basically, the female version of "Big," with Tom Hanks.) Despite being a cutthroat magazine editor who lives in a glamorous New York apartment, Jenna aches for comfort and seeks out the best friend (Mark Ruffalo) she left behind in the 1980s. The film may not be original, but it's a joy to watch. And it features enough Talking Heads, Madonna and Michael Jackson to please any '80s kid. 

Photograph 
Kristin Chenoweth, Left, and Idina Menzel. (Photograph by Eric Liebowitz/Nbc); Alexandra Pelosi, Right, and Judy Nichols. (Photograph by Hbo); Jennifer Garner (Photograph by Columbia Pictures) 
Copyright New York Times Company Oct 29, 2018 
Subject 	Documentary films; 
Mass murders 


Location 	New York; Kenya; Pennsylvania 
People 	Trump, Donald J; Ruffalo, Mark; Pelosi, Nancy; Maguire, Gregory; Grande, Ariana; 

Garner, Jennifer; Hanks, Tom 


Company / organization  Name:  New York Times Co  
NAICS:  511110, 511120, 515112, 515120;  
Name:  Public Broadcasting Service  

NAICS:  515120;  
Name:  Democratic Party  
NAICS:  813940;  
Name:  YouTube Inc  
NAICS:  519130;  
Name:  Columbia Pictures  
NAICS:  512110;  
Name:  Talking Heads  
NAICS:  711130;  
Name:  Masai Mara National Reserve  
NAICS:  712190;  
Name:  Facebook Inc  
NAICS:  518210, 519130;  
Name:  Google Inc  
NAICS:  334310, 519130;  
Name:  Animal Planet  
NAICS:  515210  


Title  What's On Monday: [Schedule]  
Author  Aridi, Sara  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  C.7  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Oct 29, 2018  
Section  C  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Schedule  
ProQuest document ID  2126454607  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2126454607?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Oct 29, 2018  

Last updated 2018-10-29 
Database Global Newsstream 
document 46 of 236 


A State's Push to Curb Climate Change by Billing Polluters: [National Desk] 
Johnson, Kirk.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]27 Oct 2018: A.10. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=A+State%27s+Push+to+Curb+Climate+Change+by+Billing+Polluters%3A+%5B 10-27&volume=&issue=&spage=A.10&au=Johnson%2C+Kirk&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
CENTRALIA, Wash. -- The last coal mine in Washington State closed down about a decade ago in Centralia, about 65 miles south of Seattle, leaving scars on the land and the local economy. Now, a solar electricity project -- perhaps the largest in the state -- is planned for the same location, by the same company that once ran the mine. 
Bob Guenther sees that as a sign that the struggling stretch of Washington State where he has lived most of his life can find a new way forward. 
"That's the vision, a clean energy hub," said Mr. Guenther, 74, who worked for three decades at a coal-fired power plant in Centralia that is scheduled to start shutting down in a few years. "It's time for a new economy, and we're going to have to pull ourselves up by our bootstraps and do everything we can to get it." 
One piece of that transformation, Mr. Guenther said, will be decided on Election Day by people across the state, who will vote on whether to charge companies and utilities for their carbon emissions. The proposed carbon fees, aimed at curbing climate change by making the burning of fossil fuels more expensive, would be the first such state initiative in the nation, and other states are closely watching the election outcome. 
Opponents like Gary Stamper, a county commissioner and former school principal, said he feared that the rural area around Centralia would see little of the financial benefit from the fees the state collects, while the companies that pay the fees would pass the extra costs along to residents. That would be hard on Centralia, which is still trying to recover from the coal mine closure in 2006 and the national recession that followed. 
"It would hurt my constituents," Mr. Stamper said, adding that the last thing this region needs are more economic challenges: "Not that I'm not supporting clean air or clean water and all the things that go along with it, but it seems to me we're going to bear the brunt." 
The fate of Washington's carbon ballot initiative is far from certain. But in a recent poll, 50 percent of respondents said that they supported the carbon fee, 36 percent opposed it and 14 percent were undecided. 
If the initiative passes, the fees would start at $15 for each ton of gases produced in fossil-fuel combustion, and would rise over time. Some major industries, like aviation, would be exempt, but even so, the fees would still be expected to raise $2.3 billion in the first five years. 
A previous carbon-pricing effort was defeated by Washington voters in 2016, and a plan by Gov. Jay Inslee, a Democrat, to pass a carbon pricing system through the Legislature died earlier this year without a vote. Shaping those debates was Washington's defining political tension, between liberal-leaning residents of the economically booming Puget Sound area near Seattle and the more conservative, less prosperous rural areas to the east and south. 
This time around, there are notable differences. The earlier efforts called for carbon taxes; this year's version is technically not a tax but a fee, which may sound more palatable to voters. Unlike tax receipts, which legislators could get their hands on to use for other purposes, the fee revenue would have be spent on efforts like carbon and pollution reduction and forest health programs under a specified formula. 
Some environmental groups opposed the previous ballot measure because it also would have lowered other taxes, meaning that the state would not have netted much new revenue for climate or energy projects. 
Huge money is flowing into the campaign, making it one of the most expensive ballot-measure campaigns in state history. More than $26 million has been raised to oppose the fees, mostly from the oil and gas industry, while more than $14 million has been raised in support. Michael Bloomberg, the former mayor of New York City, contributed $1 million to back the initiative, as did Bill Gates, the billionaire philanthropist. Microsoft, the company Mr. Gates co-founded and a huge economic force in the state, came out in support of the initiative last week. 
If the carbon fee initiative passes, the investments it would finance could include anything from energy efficiency upgrades to electrified transit projects. Aid to low-income residents and to workers who are displaced from fossil-fuel industries are built into the measure as well. 
Washington starts the conversation about energy at a different place than any other state in the nation. By virtue of the region's topography, hydrology and the engineering feats of the federal dam builders who began remaking the Columbia River basin in the 1930s, the energy debate in the Pacific Northwest is distinct. 
Large-scale power production from the dams -- more than twice as much as Oregon, the No. 2 state for hydropower output -- means that Washington already emits less carbon dioxide for each unit of energy it produces than any other state, according to federal figures. What's more, the Pacific Northwest has little oil or gas to drill for or fight over, and the region's coal deposits have played out or become uneconomical. 
Supporters of a carbon fee say the state's extensive base of renewable, nonpolluting energy makes it the perfect laboratory to test efforts like this, because the economic impact would be less dramatic than in big coal states like West Virginia or Kentucky. 
Opponents say the state's unusual characteristics and the way the ballot measure is structured will make the carbon fee unfair and unlikely to have an impact on air quality or climate change. Consumers could pay higher costs, they say, and some industries will be hit far harder than others because of the exemptions. Among those who would receive exemptions is TransAlta, which owns the soon-to-close coal-fired power plant in Centralia as well as the old coal mine where the new solar installation is planned. 
Centralia was founded in the 1870s by the son of a slave, and its location has long been part of its appeal. The city sat along an important rail line that was crucial to the state's timber industry. Now with roughly 17,000 residents, it is on the Interstate 5 corridor midway between Portland and Seattle. The power plant also put the city at the center of a regional power grid and its web of high-capacity power lines. So post-coal ideas like the solar energy project -- as well as wind power and electricity generation from wood pulp, which are also being talked about -- would have a distribution system already in place. 
The pain of a long economic downturn, though, runs deep. Unemployment remains higher in Lewis County, which includes Centralia, than the state average, and wages there are lower. 
Not long ago, TransAlta donated 1,000 acres of land to go toward new economic development. But the industrial park planned for that land is empty so far, home to elk, geese and an occasional wandering bear. Some potential tenants have expressed hesitancy to make a commitment until the carbon-fee question is answered at the ballot box, said Allyn Roe, the industrial park's chief operating officer. 
"The uncertainty is not helping," he said. 

Photograph 
Bob Guenther by the Centralia Power Plant Where He Used to Work. The Coal-Fired Plant Near Centralia, Wash., Is Scheduled to Start Shutting Down in the Next Few Years. A Mall Lies Abandoned in Centralia, Which has Struggled to Recover Economically After the City's Coal Mine Closed About a Decade Ago. (Photographs by Evan Mcglinn for the New York Times) 
Copyright New York Times Company Oct 27, 2018 
Subject 	Local elections; 
Electricity distribution; 
Carbon; 
Coal mining; 

Air pollution; 

Coal-fired power plants; 
Alternative energy sources; 

Climate change; 
Fees & charges 


Location 	New York; Pacific Northwest; Columbia River; Puget Sound; Oregon; Kentucky; West Virginia 
People 	Bloomberg, Michael; Gates, Bill; Inslee, Jay 
Company / organization 	Name: New York Times Co 

NAICS: 511110, 511120, 515112, 515120; 


Name: Microsoft Corp NAICS: 334614, 511210 
Title 	A State's Push to Curb Climate Change by Billing Polluters: [National Desk] 
Author 	Johnson, Kirk 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.10 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Oct 27, 2018 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	General Interest Periodicals--United States 
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2125562997  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2125562997?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Oct 27, 2018  
Last updated  2018-10-27  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 47 of 236 


How to Create a Climate Change Investment Strategy: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Sullivan, Paul.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]27 Oct 2018: B.4. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=How+to+Create+a+Climate+Change+Investment+Strategy%3A+%5BBusiness% 10-27&volume=&issue=&spage=B.4&au=Sullivan%2C+Paul&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
The United Nations released a sobering report on climate change this month, stating that the Earth is warming faster than even scientists thought and that without far-reaching 
action, the planet is likely to warm to a dangerous level by 2040. 
Scientist have been sounding the alarm about global warming for decades, but the report hit a chord: Time is running out before serious and possibly irreversible effects are 
felt. 

Debate on the causes and effects will continue, but money managers say this stake in the ground gives investors a concrete guide to understand how climate change will affect 

their investments. 
"When you lay out what the challenge is, you're in a better position to attack it," said Stephen M. Liberatore, a fixed-income portfolio manager at Nuveen who manages $9 
billion with an environmental, social and governance mandate. 

"A report like that lays out the solutions," he said. "If we need $2 trillion to invest to save the planet, here's what we need to do. I think it allows people to see what they need 

to do to accomplish their goals." 
It has been getting easier for individuals to invest with climate change as a focus. Since 1995, assets in sustainable and responsible investments have grown 18-fold, to more 
than $11 trillion, according to US SIF, a membership organization of sustainable investors. 

There are two main approaches to creating a climate change investment strategy. One is investing in alternative energy. This can be done in a variety of areas, including solar, wind or geothermal production and distribution, or companies that make the infrastructure, like battery cells that power electric cars. 
The other way is what some call climate-proofing a portfolio. The premise is that a warmer Earth will create economic disruption and that companies need to prepare for this. Walmart, for example, has worked to make its more than 5,000 stores more environmentally responsible, from demanding that suppliers use less packaging to turning off lights at night. These are small steps that, given the retailer's size, have saved it billions of dollars and reduced waste. This week, Walmart signed a deal to increase the use of solar panels on its stores. 
In another example, Toyota, the maker of the Prius, has sold bonds whose proceeds were used to promote its hybrid technology. 
Here are three ways to consider climate change as a criterion for making investments: 
Tap public markets for green investing 
Investing in publicly traded equity and debt is an easy way to express a view on climate change. And their availability, along with the increasing number and size of mutual 

funds with a focus on the environment, offer plenty of choices. 

Yet these investments, like any other, carry risk. "You still have to do your homework," said Lloyd Kurtz, head of social impact investing for Wells Fargo Private Bank. "If you buy an expensive stock with bad fundamentals, it could be green but it's still going to perform badly." That was the case with many early solar investments and the selections that early green energy funds made, Mr. Kurtz said. But he said the case for renewable energy had been 
bolstered by companies, like Apple and Google, that adopted these sources to power their operations in the United States. 
The debt market has developed to a level that there are offerings for retail investors. 
Louise Herrle, managing director and head of socially responsible investing at Incapital, which underwrites bond offerings, said she had seen an increased interest from baby 

boomers who want a portfolio aligned with their values. This could mean offerings from the World Bank to fund water projects or bonds like the one from Toyota. 
"Retail is going to drive this," she said. "They want to put their money where their mouth is. People are talking about the financial return and the social return." 
Seek companies expanding responsible business 
Constructing sustainable buildings is a major source of green investment, as are wind farms and solar arrays. But there are plenty of companies in a middle ground, working to 

retrofit buildings or using alternative energy to add to existing power sources. 

Kevin Walenta, who manages Fidelity's select environment and alternative energy portfolio, said he followed companies that saved energy in more traditional ways. These companies, like Ingersoll Rand, Lennox International, Honeywell and Johnson Controls, install efficient lighting or heating and cooling systems in commercial buildings. The result is significantly less energy consumption, higher green ratings for a building and returns in just two or three years. 
Mr. Walenta said he looked at both parts of investing, the environmental impact and the total return. 
"I am looking for the companies that are driving environmental change but have a durable business model, good returns, positive cash flow and strong balance sheets," he said. "Within the context of environmental change, I want them to drive profits over long periods of time." 
Another area for investors is electrical utilities, he said. In regions like Southern California and Arizona, the cost of solar energy makes it competitive with traditional energy. The same, he said, holds true for wind power in parts of the Midwest like Oklahoma. 
"A decade ago, they weren't the best investments because you had significant premium for a wind turbine or a solar panel relative to the other options, like natural gas and coal," Mr. Walenta said. "Today, that difference is nonexistent." 
Such strategies aim to rebut the common belief that investing with an environmental focus reduces returns. There are examples of inferior investments made to achieve a social good, but there are companies focused on green initiatives that are profitable and may be more so as climate change intensifies. 
"There are three main misperceptions that I talk to every investor about: You give up performance to be responsible investors, responsible investing isn't mainstream, and you can't make an impact in public market securities," Mr. Liberatore said. 
Our investors are "looking for return potential and impact," he added. 
Look to Asia for a big impact 
Its decision to pull out of the Paris climate agreement was big news, but the United States' pollution of the environment has stayed roughly consistent over the past 25 years, and Europe has decreased its carbon levels. The big polluters have been countries in Asia, China in particular. 
Vivek Tanneeru, portfolio manager of the Matthews Asia ESG Fund, said that 85 percent of the growth in emissions had happened in Asia, and that China had accounted for 61 percent of that growth. 
On the positive side, he said, the solar panels that China installed in the first nine months of 2017 exceeded all the solar panels in the United States up to 2016. 
"It tells you the Chinese government has the political will to do this," Mr. Tanneeru said. "Anyone who is serious about addressing climate change needs to begin in Asia to have any global impact." 
His investment focus is not in renewable energy. That industry, and solar panels in particular, has not had a great track record over the past decade, largely because of government support and low barriers to entry, which led to oversupply. 
Mr. Tanneeru said he was focused more on battery technology, which is produced almost entirely in Asia. Tesla uses Panasonic battery cells, BMW's i3 runs on Samsung technology, and GM used batteries from LG Chemical. It's also an area, he noted, that has high barriers to entry. 
Another climate strategy in Asia is investing in the companies that run high-speed rail networks, like MTR in Hong Kong. In a decade, China went from zero to 125,000 kilometers of high-speed rail, making living outside polluted cities like Shanghai a possibility. 
Regardless of the investment type, most investors suffer from home-country bias, which is a tendency to invest more where they live even if concentrating their money there increases their risk. The same holds true for climate change investing, a fact that seems baffling given that by definition, rising temperatures are a global problem. 
"The U.S. has walked out of the Paris climate accord, but all of Asia is in," Mr. Tanneeru said. "There's a lack of appreciation of Asia's leadership in addressing these challenges. That's the big constraint in my mind." 

Photograph 
Solar Panels On a Walmart Supercenter in Baldwin Park, Calif. Walmart Signed an Agreement This Week to Increase the Use of Solar Panels On Its Stores. (Photograph by Reed Saxon/Associated Press) 
Copyright New York Times Company Oct 27, 2018 
Subject 	Investments; 
Investment policy; 
High speed rail; 
Alternative energy sources; 

Baby boomers; 

Discount department stores; 
Climate change; 
Portfolio management 


Location 	United States--US; Southern California; Arizona; China; Hong Kong; Asia; Europe; Oklahoma 
Company / organization 	Name: Wells Fargo & Co 

NAICS: 522110, 551111; 


Name: Johnson Controls Inc 

NAICS: 334512, 335911, 336390, 561621; 


Name: United Nations--UN 

NAICS: 928120; 

Name:  International Bank for Reconstruction & Development--World Bank  
NAICS:  928120;  
Name:  Walmart Inc  
NAICS:  452112, 452910, 454111;  
Name:  Google Inc  
NAICS:  334310, 519130  

Title  How to Create a Climate Change Investment Strategy: [Business/Financial Desk]  
Author  Sullivan, Paul  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.4  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Oct 27, 2018  
column  Wealth Matters  
Section  B  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2125562663  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2125562663?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Oct 27, 2018  
Last updated  2018-10-27  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 48 of 236 


Science Isn't Enough to Save Us: [Op-Ed] 
Oreskes, Naomi; Conway, Erik M.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]17 Oct 2018: A.25. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Science+Isn%27t+Enough+to+Save+Us%3A+%5BOp­Ed%5D&title=New+York+Times&issn=03624331&date=2018-10­17&volume=&issue=&spage=A.25&au=Oreskes%2C+Naomi%3BConway%2C+Erik+M&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Last week's report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change was bad news from top to bottom. Dangerous planetary warming is underway, it's happening faster than scientists predicted, and time is running out to stop it. 
The problem seems so intractable, the challenges of addressing it so monumental, as to defy solving. But the history of technology offers reasons for optimism. Major technological transformations can occur over 10 to 30 years. That's why the time lost since 1992, when governments first signed a landmark climate treaty to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, is so distressing. If we had set to work then, as President George H.W. Bush promised to do by taking "concrete steps" to protect ourselves from disruptive climate change, we could have transformed our energy systems by now and significantly reduced greenhouse gas emissions. 
We can still do this. According to the new report, emissions from fossil fuels must be phased out by 2050, so there is still time to get this job done. But here's the catch: None of the major technological transformations of the 19th and 20th centuries were the product of the private sector acting alone and responding only to the market. Railroads, radio, telegraph, telephone, electricity and the internet were all the result of public-private partnerships. None was delivered by the "invisible hand" of the marketplace. All involved significant interventions by the visible hand of government. 
What does this mean for us? Right now, government is widely seen as inefficient and ineffective, and our needs are thought to be best addressed by the private sector, through entrepreneurship, venture capital and Silicon Valley-style "disruption." But unless we acknowledge the need for a substantial government role, we are going to be stuck, because change driven solely by the marketplace is unlikely to suffice. 
Some might object that our current challenge is vastly different from those met by past technological changes, because we're not just talking about a thing, like a radio or cellphone, but about changing our entire energy system. But these earlier transformations involved systems, too. Just as energy technology isn't one thing, neither were the railroads, radio, electricity or the internet. Those systems all involved many parts, including federal, state and local policies to support them (the land grants that made the railroads possible, for instance, or role of the Federal Trade Commission in licensing radio and television stations). 
What makes large-scale technological change challenging is the integration of all of those parts. Electricity wasn't just a matter of turbines, or even turbines, power lines and transformers. Financing and regulation were also required. After electricity was introduced to the urban marketplace, the biggest obstacle to its expanded use was profitability. The private sector was able to make money bringing electricity to densely populated cities like New York, St. Louis and Chicago, but it took federal intervention, under the 1936 Rural Electrification Act, to bring it to rural communities across America. 
And even then, uptake was not immediate. Rural electrification boosters insisted that hard-working farmers urgently needed electricity, but initial demand was less than expected. The Tennessee Valley Authority wanted to cut rates to drive up demand. But private utilities opposed this, worrying that low rates would threaten their financing, and the T.V.A. settled on an appliance subsidy to drive increased household consumption. Demand had to be built. 
The internet was created by scientists funded by the federal government's Advanced Research Projects Agency. Al Gore didn't build it, but he did sponsor the 1991 legislation that made it public, which laid the foundation for the World Wide Web, Silicon Valley, smartphones and our information-driven society. 
We might also imagine that earlier technologies were easier to develop because they offered immediate benefits for consumers and quick profits for business. It certainly looks that way in hindsight, because those benefits are now thoroughly integrated into our lives. But it's not so. The historian Richard White at Stanford has shown that railroads offered almost no immediate benefit to anyone except the railroad barons, because they were built far ahead of demand, and often into places where white settlers had no interest in going. When radio was first invented, no one could figure out why any ordinary person would buy one, so programming had to be invented, which meant sponsors had to be found, which in turn contributed to the rise of modern mass media advertising. 
Demand for new technologies is rarely entirely spontaneous. If people have been living without something, it's not always obvious to them why they now need it. They are likely to resist being told that they must spend money or endure inconvenience to change. In most cases, demand has to be developed and nurtured. A case for change has to be made, supported by public policy. The fact that many of these technological revolutions took hold in a generation's time is partly because young people were quicker to adopt these new technologies than their elders. 
But government support was essential for their success. Proof of this can be found in states that seek to stimulate the development of renewable-energy technologies and drive down greenhouse gas emissions. For instance, the nine states in the northeastern Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, a market-based effort to reduce power plant emissions, have cut them by a whopping 39 percent since 2009. (One of us installed solar power in our home under this plan.) In California, renewable electricity has increased to about 30 percent from about 11 percent since a law was passed in 2006 requiring nearly all sectors of the economy to sharply reduce greenhouse gas emissions. 
These state initiatives are important steps, but they are not enough. In the northeast, some of the emissions gains have been offset by importing power from states outside the compact and will be further undermined if the federal government approves new coal mining on public lands. And the White House is still in denial about the reality of climate change, as is a large part of Congress. Without policies to phase out fossil fuels, the increase in renewable-energy technologies might merely serve to increase our total energy supply without eliminating greenhouse gas emissions. Coal use in the United States has been decreasing, but under current policies that could easily change. 
Some think that if we focus on technology, we can somehow avoid the messiness of politics and partisanship. But we won't get the energy technologies we need and the systems to make them work in the time we need them if we don't have the government policies to make them a reality. 
Naomi Oreskes and Erik M. Conway are Guggenheim fellows and are working on their new book, "The Magic of the Marketplace: The True History of a False Idea," to be published in 2020. 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion) . 
Illustration 
Drawing (Drawing by James Heimer) 
Copyright New York Times Company Oct 17, 2018 
Subject 	Internet; 
Technological change; 

Emissions; 

Energy; 
Greenhouse effect; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Climate change; 
Greenhouse gases; 
Electricity; 
Fossil fuels; 
Rural areas; 

Global warming; 
Environmental protection; 
Pollution control 


Location 	Silicon Valley-California; United States--US 
Company / organization 	Name: Advanced Research Projects Agency 

NAICS: 928110; 

Name: Tennessee Valley Authority--TVA NAICS: 221111, 221121, 221122; 
Name: Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change NAICS: 541712, 928120; 
Name: Federal Trade Commission--FTC NAICS: 926150 
Title 	Science Isn't Enough to Save Us: [Op-Ed] 
Author 	Oreskes, Naomi; Conway, Erik M 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.25 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Oct 17, 2018 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	General Interest Periodicals--United States 
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  2120565625  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2120565625?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Oct 17, 2018  
Last updated  2018-10-17  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 49 of 236 



One Way To Stay Cool: [Op-Ed] 
Lerner, Sharon.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]16 Oct 2018: A.23. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=One+Way+To+Stay+Cool%3A+%5BOp­Ed%5D&title=New+York+Times&issn=03624331&date=2018-10­16&volume=&issue=&spage=A.23&au=Lerner%2C+Sharon&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
The report released recently by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change laid out the drastic reductions in coal, oil and gas consumption necessary to avoid catastrophic warming of the planet. But to stave off the most disastrous damage, we need to swear off another product, too: hydrofluorocarbons, better known as HFCs. And banishing them shouldn't be so hard, relatively speaking. 
In a bitter irony, these chemicals, used to cool, have also been driving global temperatures up. Used in refrigerators and air-conditioners since the 1980s, HFCs are extremely potent contributors to the earth's warming. One HFC, 134a, used in most American refrigerators traps 1,300 times more heat than carbon dioxide does. Another, 410a, used in most American air-conditioners, is worse. Around the world, as more people rely on air-conditioning to cope with severe heat, the HFCs that routinely leak out of appliances and into the atmosphere have become the fastest-growing type of greenhouse gas emitted in every country on earth. 
There is a seemingly simple solution to this feedback loop: Stop making and using HFCs. But so far, we've been unable to do it -- not for scientific reasons, but for political ones. Just as we do with fossil fuels, we already have alternatives to HFCs that don't contribute to warming. For cooling, a range of substances including ammonia, propane and iso­butane can do the trick. 
Yet, instead of moving forward, our country has been reversing the steps it has already taken toward solving the HFC problem. This year, the Environmental Protection Agency announced it would not be enforcing a 2015 rule that prohibited the use of HFCs. The E.P.A. has also proposed weakening an Obama-era effort to limit HFC leaks from appliances. 
An appeals court ruling written by none other than Brett Kavanaugh has further hampered the fight against these climate-polluting refrigerants. In 2017, Judge Kavanaugh ruled that the E.P.A.'s 2015 HFC rule exceeded the agency's authority. Last week, on his first day as a justice, the Supreme Court decided it would not revisit that decision. (The E.P.A. has said that it is working on a new rule.) 
An international agreement known as the Kigali Amendment will begin phasing out HFCs in 2019. Though the United States, the biggest emitter of the chemicals, has yet to ratify the treaty, 53 parties, including Australia, Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Mexico and the Maldives, an archipelago nation on the front lines of climate change, have already done so. With American participation, the agreement is expected to prevent half a degree Celsius of global warming by the end of the century. 
While Justice Kavanaugh, who has a history of striking down environmental regulations, may be on the highest court for life, Congress and the president who put him there have shorter terms. Resistance to ratifying Kigali has been led by a group that sees concern about the climate as "alarmism." But after the midterms, their opposition may matter less. 
Already, there is plenty of support for the Kigali Amendment not just from environmental groups, but, critically, also from many Republicans and from the HFC manufacturers themselves. (Their interest seems to stem from having replacement refrigerants that would benefit from the phasing out of HFCs, but that is another story.) Unlike coal companies, the HFC industry actually wants the United States to phase out its product. 
Chemours, which spun off from DuPont in 2015 and inherited its chemical refrigerant business, has lobbied Congress to support the treaty and, along with Honeywell, another manufacturer of refrigerant chemicals, filed the appeal of the Kavanaugh ruling that the Supreme Court just decided not to hear. The Alliance for Responsible Atmospheric Policy, a coalition of manufacturers that make and use HFCs, wrote to President Trump in June to urge him to submit the Kigali Amendment to the Senate for ratification. Unwilling to wait for federal action, New York, California, Connecticut and Maryland have made their own plans for limiting the chemicals. 
There's another reason to be optimistic that we will break from the environmentally catastrophic refrigerants: We've done it before. HFCs are actually themselves a replacement for CFCs, which were phased out by the Montreal Protocol, the 1987 treaty that was amended in Kigali in 2016 to also eliminate HFCs. First used as refrigerants in the 1930s, CFCs were on the market for more than four decades before scientists discovered they were eating away at the ozone in our atmosphere -- a process that, had it been allowed to continue unchecked, would have eventually exposed us to lethal amounts of the sun's radiation. 
The threat from HFCs is no less existential -- or urgent. As the climate report makes clear, avoiding climate catastrophe will require almost superhuman efforts to overcome the wall of opposition to regulation erected by the fossil fuel industry. In comparison, breaking from HFCs should be comparatively easy. 
Sharon Lerner (@fastlerner) is an environmental reporter for The Intercept. This article was reported in partnership with the nonprofit Investigative Fund. 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion) . 
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 

AuthorAffiliation 
SHARON LERNER Sharon Lerner is an environmental reporter for The Intercept. This article was reported in partnership with the nonprofit Investigative Fund. Copyright New York Times Company Oct 16, 2018 
Subject  Chlorofluorocarbons; Climate change; Global warming; Federal court decisions; Environmental regulations  
Location  United States--US  
People  Trump, Donald J; Kavanaugh, Brett  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Congress 921120;  
Name: NAICS:  Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 924110;  
Name: NAICS:  Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 541712, 928120;  
Name: NAICS:  Supreme Court-US 922110  
Title  One Way To Stay Cool: [Op-Ed]  
Author  Lerner, Sharon  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.23  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Oct 16, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  2120072265  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2120072265?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Oct 16, 2018  

Last updated 2018-10-16 
Database Global Newsstream 
document 50 of 236 


Donald and the Deadly Deniers: [Op-Ed] 
Krugman, Paul.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]16 Oct 2018: A.22. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Donald+and+the+Deadly+Deniers%3A+%5BOp­Ed%5D&title=New+York+Times&issn=03624331&date=2018-10­16&volume=&issue=&spage=A.22&au=Krugman%2C+Paul&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Climate change is a hoax. 
Climate change is happening, but it's not man-made. 
Climate change is man-made, but doing anything about it would destroy jobs and kill economic growth. 
These are the stages of climate denial. Or maybe it's wrong to call them stages, since the deniers never really give up an argument, no matter how thoroughly it has been refuted by evidence. They're better described as cockroach ideas -- false claims you may think you've gotten rid of, but keep coming back. 
Anyway, the Trump administration and its allies -- put on the defensive by yet another deadly climate change-enhanced hurricane and an ominous United Nations report -- have been making all of these bad arguments over the past few days. I'd say it was a shocking spectacle, except that it's hard to get shocked these days. But it was a reminder that we're now ruled by people who are willing to endanger civilization for the sake of political expediency, not to mention increased profits for their fossil-fuel friends. 
About those cockroaches: Details aside, the very multiplicity of climate-denial arguments -- the deniers' story keeps changing, but the bottom line that we should do nothing remains the same -- is a sign that the opponents of climate action are arguing in bad faith. They aren't seriously trying to engage with the reality of climate change or the economics of reduced emissions; their goal is to keep polluters free to pollute as long as possible, and they'll grab onto anything serving that goal. 
Still, it's worth pointing out how thoroughly all their arguments have collapsed in recent years. 
These days, climate deniers seem to have temporarily backed down a bit on claims that nothing is happening. The old dodge of comparing temperatures to an unusually warm year in 1998 to deny that the planet is getting warmer -- which is like comparing days in early July with a warm day in May, and denying that there's such a thing as summer -­has been undermined by a string of new temperature records. And massive tropical storms fed by a warming ocean have made the consequences of climate change increasingly visible to the public. 
So the new strategy is to downplay what has happened. Climate change models "have not been very successful," declared Larry Kudlow, the top White House economic adviser. Actually, they have: Global warming to date is well in line with past projections. "Something's changing and it'll change back again," asserted Donald Trump on "60 Minutes," based upon, well, nothing. 
Having grudgingly conceded that maybe the planet is indeed getting a bit warmer, the climate deniers claim to be unconvinced that greenhouse gases are responsible. "I don't know that it's man-made," said Trump. And while he has sort-of-kind-of backed down on his earlier claims that climate change is a hoax concocted by the Chinese, he's still seeing vast conspiracies on the part of climate scientists, who he says "have a very big political agenda." 
Think about that. Decades ago experts predicted, based on fundamental science, that emissions would raise global temperatures. People like Trump scoffed. Now the experts' prediction has come true. And the deniers insist that emissions aren't the culprit, that something else must be driving the change, and it's all a conspiracy. Come on. 
Why, it's as if Trump were to suggest that the Saudis had nothing to do with the disappearance of Jamal Khashoggi, who vanished after entering a Saudi embassy -- that he was killed by some mysterious third party. Oh, wait. 
Finally, about the cost of climate policy: I've noted in the past how strange it is that conservatives have total faith in the power and flexibility of market economies, but claim that these economies will be completely destroyed if the government creates incentives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. 
Apocalyptic claims about the cost of reducing emissions are especially strange given tremendous technological progress in renewable energy: The costs of wind and solar power have plummeted. Meanwhile, coal-fired power plants have become so uncompetitive that the Trump administration wants to subsidize them at the expense of cleaner energy. 
In short, while the arguments of climate deniers were always weak, they've gotten much weaker. Even if you were genuinely persuaded by the deniers five or 10 years ago, subsequent developments should have made you reconsider. 
In reality, of course, climate denial has never had much to do with either logic or evidence; as I said, deniers are clearly arguing in bad faith. They don't really believe what they're saying. They're just looking for excuses that will let people like the Koch brothers keep making money. Besides, liberals want to limit emissions, and modern conservatism is largely about owning the libs. 
One way to think about what's happening here is that it's the ultimate example of Trumpian corruption. We have good reason to believe that Trump and his associates are 
selling out America for the sake of personal gain. When it comes to climate, however, they aren't just selling out America; they're selling out the whole world. 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion) , and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter . 
Copyright New York Times Company Oct 16, 2018 

Subject  Emissions;  
Bad faith;  
Coal-fired power plants;  
Environmental policy;  
Greenhouse effect;  
Industrial plant emissions;  
Climate change;  
Global warming;  
False information  
Location  United States--US  
People  Trump, Donald J  
Title  Donald and the Deadly Deniers: [Op-Ed]  
Author  Krugman, Paul  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.22  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Oct 16, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  2120071849  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2120071849?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Oct 16, 2018  
Last updated  2018-10-16  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 51 of 236 


Environmental Protection Racket: [Editorial] 
New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]14 Oct 2018: SR.8. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Environmental+Protection+Racket%3A+%5BEditorial%5D&title=New+York+T 10-14&volume=&issue=&spage=SR.8&au=&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
If we keep burning coal and petroleum to power our society, we're cooked -- and a lot faster than we thought. The United Nations scientific panel on climate change issued a terrifying new warning last week that continued emissions of greenhouse gases from power plants and vehicles will bring dire and irreversible changes by 2040, years earlier than previously forecast. The cost will be measured in trillions of dollars and in sweeping societal and environmental damage, including mass die-off of coral reefs and animal species, flooded coastlines, intensified droughts, food shortages, mass migrations and deeper poverty. 
The worst impacts can be avoided only by a "far-reaching and unprecedented" transformation of the global energy system, including virtually eliminating the use of coal as a source of electricity, the panel warned. 
Yet President Trump, who has questioned the accepted scientific consensus on climate change, continues to praise "clean beautiful coal" and has directed his Environmental Protection Agency to reverse major strides undertaken by the Obama administration to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from coal-fired power plants. This is unbelievably reckless. 
In addition to undermining the fight against climate change, the president's efforts to prop up the dirtiest of all fuels will also exact a significant toll on public health, on the hearts and lungs of ordinary Americans. 
The E.P.A.'s bedrock mission is to protect public health and welfare. Its basic tools are 50 years of federal clean air and water laws meant to limit Americans' exposure to environmental poisons and pollutants. 
Every so often an administration comes along that seems to forget this mission. We have one now. Andrew Wheeler, the agency's acting administrator, is clearly a great improvement in moral terms over his ethically challenged and thankfully departed predecessor, Scott Pruitt. Mr. Wheeler's ideology and policies, however, are much the same, weighted in favor of the industries Mr. Wheeler once represented as a handsomely paid lobbyist, and against the health needs of Americans. Like the president he serves, Mr. Wheeler displays little concern for climate change and its epochal challenges. 
The latest example is a proposal his agency sent to the White House for review and approval that would, in broadest terms, greatly devalue the public health benefits of reducing air pollution. The proposal is specifically aimed at a 2011 finding by the Obama administration that when the agency devises rules to control a particular pollutant -­mercury, in this case -- it must take into account not only the compliance costs to industry but the additional health benefits that arise from the reduction in other harmful gases like soot and smog that occur as a side effect. Though the health benefits of controlling mercury alone were quite small, and the costs to industry large, those costs were outweighed by savings to the country in annual health costs and lost workdays when the co-benefits were factored in. 
The Wheeler proposal would disallow any calculation of these side benefits and allow only those associated with the regulated pollutant. Mr. Wheeler promises that existing mercury emissions limits will remain in place. He also acknowledges that industry has already invested billions of dollars on new technology to comply with the mercury rule, and that many companies have done so. But weakening the foundation on which that rule was promulgated could invite lawsuits to overturn it entirely, and -- even more ominously -- could make it easier for the Trump administration or a like-minded one to ignore important ancillary public health benefits when devising other environmental regulations in the future. 
So chalk up another win for Robert Murray, the far-right Trump confidante and chief executive of the Murray Energy Corporation, a big coal producer for which Mr. Wheeler served as an attorney and lobbyist. Mr. Murray requested the mercury rollback as one of 16 items on a wish list he presented last year to the Trump administration. He is one of several coal barons who lobbied the administration to revisit the cost-benefit rules to set a precedent for future regulations. 
Near the top of Mr. Murray's to-do list, higher even than mercury, was the repeal and replacement of the Clean Power Plan, a cornerstone of President Barack Obama's strategy to fight global warming. Here, too, Mr. Wheeler has faithfully delivered, and here, too, he and his agency have given short shrift to human health. 
The Clean Power Plan was aimed mainly at reducing carbon dioxide, the principal global warming gas, from coal-fired power plants. But like the mercury rule, it would also, as a collateral benefit, have reduced other dangerous pollutants like smog and soot. In so doing, the Obama administration calculated, it would prevent 1,500 to 3,600 premature deaths per year by 2030 and would provide other beneficial health effects. By contrast, as Lisa Friedman of The Times discovered, the Trump administration's laughably weak replacement plan would cause (by the Trump E.P.A.'s own calculations) as many as 1,400 premature deaths annually by 2030, as well as 15,000 new cases of upper respiratory disease and billions of dollars in new health care costs, mainly from an increase in fine particulate matter linked to heart and lung disease. 
At the time, Mr. Wheeler's lieutenants told everyone not to worry, that the agency had other rules to control these and other life-threatening pollutants. Among the optimists was William Wehrum, the agency's chief air pollution officer, who is glad to have another chance to undermine the nation's clean air laws after failing to do so during his previous stint in the George W. Bush administration. "We have abundant legal authority to deal with those other pollutants directly," he declared. 
As it happens, however, these other legal authorities are also at risk. As The Times's Eric Lipton reported, the Trump replacement plan would also have greatly weakened another E.P.A. program known as the New Source Review, a plan that has had an enormously beneficial effect on air quality in this country and whose demise would allow many of the nation's dirtiest power plants to keep running without installing new pollution controls. 
What we are dealing with here, in other words, is a bit of a shell game -- hard to follow, costly to the public, satisfying to those who are running it. We are also dealing with people who won't let inconvenient forecasts about death and disease deter them from their appointed goal of satisfying Mr. Trump's pro-coal agenda, and who also seem eager to keep such forecasts hidden. Late last month we learned that the E.P.A. planned to dissolve its Office of the Science Advisor, the latest of several steps beginning under Mr. Pruitt to diminish the role of scientific research in policymaking. 
Nobody really expected a new policy direction from Mr. Wheeler, who was once consigliere to Senator James Inhofe, Congress's most outspoken climate change denier. But in Mr. Wheeler's insistence on a narrow, even cramped, reading of the nation's landmark environmental laws, he is ignoring science and threatening the public health and welfare. 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion) . 
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 
Credit: THE EDITORIAL BOARD 
Copyright New York Times Company Oct 14, 2018 
Subject 	Emissions; 

Air pollution; 

Coal-fired power plants; 
Outdoor air quality; 
Climate change; 
Editorials; 

Environmental regulations; 

Pollution control; 
Environmental protection; 
Public health; 
Health hazards 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Trump, Donald J; Wheeler, Andrew; Inhofe, James M; Pruitt, Scott; Murray, Robert E 
Company / organization 	Name: United Nations--UN 

NAICS: 928120; 

Name: Congress NAICS: 921120; 
Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA NAICS: 924110; 
Name: Murray Energy Corp NAICS: 212112 
Title 	Environmental Protection Racket: [Editorial] 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	SR.8 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Oct 14, 2018 
Section 	SR 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	General Interest Periodicals--United States 
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Editorial, Opinions  
ProQuest document ID  2119110957  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2119110957?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Oct 14, 2018  
Last updated  2018-10-15  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 52 of 236 


Clean Energy Can Drive a Fund's Growth: [Money and Business/Financial Desk] 
Gray, Tim.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]14 Oct 2018: BU.15. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Clean+Energy+Can+Drive+a+Fund%27s+Growth%3A+%5BMoney+and+Busine 10-14&volume=&issue=&spage=BU.15&au=Gray%2C+Tim&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
If you worry about climate change and have some money to spare, it's natural to wonder whether investing in green energy might plump your returns while helping to stem rising temperatures. 
A growing number of stock mutual funds and exchange-traded funds specialize in the so-called green- or clean-energy industry. They invest not only in the expected companies, like generators of solar and wind power and their suppliers, but also in less obvious ones, like makers of LED light bulbs, electric cars and automobile batteries. 
Buying into one of these funds means betting on a burgeoning, if volatile, sector and pinning the green in your wallet to your hopes for a more verdant future. 
Demand for renewable energy is surging, according to the International Energy Agency, a nongovernmental organization based in Paris. As a result, growth in solar- and wind-powered electricity generation is far outstripping that of coal- and natural-gas-fueled generation, the group said in its "Renewables 2017" report. China's embrace of solar power has been the main engine for this growth, but the United States is the second-strongest market for renewables, the agency said. 
After a recent report by a United Nations scientific panel calling for immediate action to stem greenhouse-gas emissions, demand for green energy may well surge further. 
Even the billionaire investor Warren E. Buffett has taken steps toward going green: MidAmerican Energy, one of the subsidiaries of his holding company, Berkshire Hathaway, is aiming to obtain 100 percent of its electricity from wind power by 2020. 
"Decarbonization is a huge and enduring trend, and it's being led by the private sector now, like Facebook going 100 percent renewable," said Pavel S. Molchanov, a senior vice president and energy analyst with Raymond James, the financial services company. In August, Facebook, too, announced that it was striving to power its operations with renewables by the end of 2020. 
But whether investors in mutual funds and E.T.F.s have any effect on the choices being made by companies like Facebook and the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is a subject of debate among investment experts and fund managers. 
Mr. Molchanov counts himself among the skeptics. "If a person sells a coal stock, someone is going to buy it," he said. "Will that action lead to less coal being burned? No. For someone to contribute to decarbonization, the way they can do it is by putting solar on their rooftop." 
Some managers of green-energy funds disagree, saying individual investments do help the energy transition, even if they don't lead to the shuttering of a coal-fired power plant tomorrow. 
Edward B. M. Guinness, manager of the Guinness Atkinson Alternative Energy Fund, said that, all else equal, more investors should mean higher stock values for renewables companies, which would make it easier for those companies and new ventures to raise money. That should translate to further investment and expansion. "Every piece of investment in the sector matters," he said. 
By signaling consumer interest, investment in these companies also can create a virtuous cycle, potentially pulling in even more money, said Jeff Waller, a principal in the global climate finance group at Rocky Mountain Institute, a nonprofit organization based in Colorado. "You're demonstrating there's demand from the average investor," he said. "Pension funds and 401(k) managers will want to meet that demand. That can create a larger pool of capital focused on this market, which can only help." 
Jon F. Hale, global head of sustainability research for Morningstar, likened an individual's green energy bets to "voting with your money." Those sorts of "votes" can embolden fund companies to offer more products and be more aggressive in supporting and even pushing for corporate environmental investments and initiatives. 
Regardless of which view you take, an investment in green-energy companies can offer the chance to combine the possibility of profit with a commitment to environmental principles. It's where stock sleuthing meets tree hugging. (Studies by Morningstar and others have shown that including nonfinancial factors, like environmental performance, in investment management need not hurt overall returns.) 
The green-energy niche includes the usual mix of actively and passively managed funds -- those that track indexes -- and E.T.F.s. On the active side, these range from offerings from big fund companies, like the Fidelity Select Environment and Alternative Energy Portfolio, to the New Alternatives Fund, a little outfit that has been plugging away on Long Island since the early 1980s. 
"We've always had the philosophy that the fund exists to build a green energy future," said Murray D. Rosenblith, one of the portfolio managers of New Alternatives. Mr. Rosenblith said he joined his co-manager, David J. Schoenwald, who founded New Alternatives with his father, in the belief that the fund was contributing to the advancement of renewable energy. "I was a peace activist and had run a charitable foundation," he said. "I wouldn't have come here if I didn't believe we were helping." 
Over the five years ending on Sept. 28, Fidelity's fund returned an annualized average of 9.75 percent and New Alternatives 6.73 percent, compared with an annualized average of 13.95 percent for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. 
Passively managed green energy funds track well-known indexes as well as obscure, proprietary ones. Invesco, for example, built its E.T.F. on the WilderHill Clean Energy index, while BlackRock's iShares division used the S.&P. Global Clean Energy index for its offering. The Calvert Global Energy Solutions Fund is constructed upon an index that Calvert created, said one of the fund's portfolio managers, Jade S. Huang. 
Calvert opted to go its own way because it judged many of the existing indexes to be too concentrated, Ms. Huang said. The WilderHill index contains 39 stocks and the S.&P. index 29, compared with more than 150 for Calvert's index. "So we're offering a product that's more diversified but still addresses the energy crisis," she said. 
No standard recipe exists for what a renewable energy fund should contain. Some funds broaden their potential pool of holdings by including a salmagundi of stocks. 
Take Fidelity. Its fund can "look at any company out there trying to push for environmental change in its industry," said its manager, Kevin G. Walenta. Only about half of its assets are dedicated to renewable energy and energy efficiency stocks. The fund also contains waste-management, water and agricultural holdings. That broad remit suits Mr. Walenta, who said he prefers to invest in longstanding companies and shies away from newer technologies. 
Energy efficiency, in particular, is a favored theme. "The payback period for efficiency investments gets better every year," he said. "And the companies have brand power and long histories of positive economic profits." As an example, he pointed to Ingersoll Rand, a more-than-a-century-old manufacturer that makes efficient heating and air-conditioning systems. It has lately been one of the fund's top holdings. 
Mr. Hale, of Morningstar, said an investor shouldn't let concern about climate change be all that determines the amount of an investment in renewable energy. A green-energy fund or E.T.F. can supplement a diversified portfolio, with, say, a 5 percent or 10 percent allocation, but it does not take the place of a core holding, he said. 
A concern when considering such an investment might be the climate-change skepticism of the Trump administration. The solar- and wind-power industries are supported by federal tax credits. And the president likes to talk up coal, and he pulled the United States out of the Paris Climate Agreement, the international accord through which countries worldwide committed to goals for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. If the Trump administration were to push for further changes in federal energy policy, that might hurt renewables. 
But Lucas White, manager of the GMO Climate Change Fund, said doings in Washington no longer bedevil wind and solar power all that much, as the industries are now mature enough that federal support isn't crucial for their growth. (Mr. White's fund, with a minimum initial investment of $10 million, is intended for institutional investors, like pension funds.) "Costs have come down much faster than anyone thought was possible," he said. 
Mr. White noted that James L. Robo, chief executive of NextEra Energy, one of the country's largest power generators, has predicted that solar and wind power will be cheaper than coal or nuclear generation by the beginning of the next decade. "When that happens, that's a massive change in the global energy landscape," Mr. White said. 
He is also among those who say fund and E.T.F. investments can help green energy producers and other companies involved in climate-change mitigation and adaptation. 
"This may sound a little squishy, but if no one was willing to invest in these companies, they wouldn't exist," he said. 

Photograph 
The Calvert Global Energy Solutions Fund Is Built Around an Index That Calvert Created, Said Jade S. Huang, One of the Fund's Portfolio Managers. "We're Offering a Product That's More Diversified but Still Addresses the Energy Crisis," Ms. Huang Said. (Photograph by Andrew Mangum for the New York Times) (Bu16) 
Copyright New York Times Company Oct 14, 2018 
Subject 	Payback periods; 

Mutual funds; 
Clean technology; 

Emissions; 

Charitable foundations; 
Energy shortages; 

Energy industry; 

Industrial plant emissions; 

Climate change; 
Natural gas; 
Institutional investments; 
Wind power; 

Solar energy; 
Energy efficiency; 
Pension funds; 

Coal-fired power plants; 
Alternative energy sources; 

Stock exchanges 


Location 	Long Island New York; Colorado; United States--US; New York; China 
People 	Robo, James L 
Company / organization 	Name: New Alternatives Fund 

NAICS: 525120; 

Name: International Energy Agency NAICS: 541720, 926130, 928120; 
Name: Rocky Mountain Institute NAICS: 541711; 
Name:  Facebook Inc  
NAICS:  518210, 519130;  
Name:  Berkshire Hathaway Inc  
NAICS:  335210, 442210, 445292, 511110, 511130, 524126;  

Name: New York Times Co  
NAICS: 511110, 511120, 515112, 515120;  
Name: United Nations--UN  
NAICS: 928120;  
Name: NextEra Energy Resources LLC  
NAICS: 221122, 551112;  
Name: Standard & Poors Corp  
NAICS: 511120, 523999, 541519, 561450  
Title  Clean Energy Can Drive a Fund's Growth: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]  
Author  Gray, Tim  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  BU.15  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Oct 14, 2018  
Section  BU  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2119109762  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2119109762?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Oct 14, 2018  
Last updated  2018-10-14  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 53 of 236 


Why Germany Remains Addicted to Coal 15 Years After Pledge to Dial Back: [Foreign Desk] 
Eddy, Melissa.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]11 Oct 2018: A.6. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Why+Germany+Remains+Addicted+to+Coal+15+Years+After+Pledge+to+Dial+ 10-11&volume=&issue=&spage=A.6&au=Eddy%2C+Melissa&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
COTTBUS, Germany -- On a Sunday in September, at the moment when part of the nearby coal-fired power station went dark for good, 600 people lifted white miner's helmets from their heads and placed them on folding chairs in the main square in Cottbus, an industrial town in eastern Germany. 
It was a silent protest to mark the number of jobs lost. 
"You have to think that every one of those places represents a job, an income that an entire family depends on," said Mathias Felsch, a 26-year-old whose father and grandfather both worked in the coal mines. "When you see it like that, it really is a whole lot." 
Even so, for Germany, it is not nearly enough. 
If the country is to meet its commitment to the Paris Climate Accord -- to reduce carbon emissions by 80 to 95 percent by 2050 -- it must also address the economic and social impact on the roughly 22,500 people whose jobs depend on coal. 
Increasingly, for Chancellor Angela Merkel it is a question of wavering political will in the face of mounting challenges, including from the far right, in eastern regions where a bulk of those jobs would be lost. 
More than 15 years ago, Germany embarked on an ambitious plan to shift to renewable energy sources. Promoting that energy transformation, known as the Energiewende, helped earn Ms. Merkel international admiration and the moniker of "the climate chancellor." 
Yet even as Ms. Merkel was a leader in setting ambitious targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and decided in the wake of the Fukushima disaster to shutter the country's nuclear plants by 2022, successive governments under her leadership have failed to take the necessary, painful political decisions to quit coal. 
"In the past Chancellor Merkel has been seen as the 'climate chancellor,' riding on the wave of renewable energy successes," said Jennifer Morgan, a director of Greenpeace International. "But unless she turns her full attention to reducing emissions in Germany, particularly from coal, with clear support for a phaseout of coal by 2030, her legacy will not be green. It will be dirty brown." 
Today, nearly a quarter of all electricity produced in Germany still comes from burning lignite, often called brown coal, one of the dirtiest fossil fuels, making Germany the world's leader in the mining and burning of lignite, according to the International Energy Agency. 
That record runs contrary to a United Nations report released Monday, which found that time is running out for action as global temperatures are rising much faster than previously understood. The dire report, compiled by 91 scientists from 40 countries, recommended "phasing out coal in the energy sector." 
For Ms. Merkel, the news could not have come at a worse time. Already, in August, the environment ministry said the country will fail to meet its ambitious targets to cut carbon emissions to 40 percent of 1990 levels by 2020. 
The pressure to save her country's international reputation comes as Ms. Merkel faces an unexpectedly strong challenge from the far-right Alternative for Germany, or AfD, the leading opposition party, which has questioned Germany's national consensus on the role humans play in contributing to climate change. 
The party is particularly strong in three of the eastern states where mining regions sit, where the economy is among the weakest, and where sensitivities run deep over a history of economic displacement since reunification of the country in the 1990s. 
"People here remember the trauma of losing nine out of 10 jobs with the changes that happened after the collapse of communism," said Philipp Zirzow, a leader of the union representing local coal workers. "Now they are supposed to experience that all over again." 
Mr. Zirzow helped organize the miners' protest in front of city hall in Cottbus, the capital of eastern German coal country, over the closing of Block F of Jänschwalde power station. Government promises to bring industrial jobs to replace those lost never materialized, further angering and alienating people, he said. 
An estimated 7,800 jobs are dependent on the mines in Lusatia, a region abutting Poland, where Cottbus is situated and memories of the 2.5 million people put out of work after the fall of the Berlin Wall remain acute. Some 1,900 jobs are at stake in another nearby mining region in eastern Germany. 
In addition, 8,900 people work in the country's other main mining region, in the heavily industrial state of North Rhine-Westphalia, a critical testing ground for Ms. Merkel's Christian Democratic Party. 
In June, Ms. Merkel's government convened a 31-member commission to "work together with affected regions" to recommend the best ways to quit coal. Members are to arrive in Lusatia on Thursday. 
Dozens of studies published in recent years suggest a transition to renewable energy sources, while keeping the lights on and people in work, is possible. With the exception of Spain, all of Germany's western European partners have already quit coal, or are on track to do so. 
"We have the technology," said Jochen Flasbarth, a state secretary in Germany's ministry for the environment, who is considered a father of the country's shift to renewable energy. 
Germany will need to expand its power grid to help carry electricity generated by turbines in the windy northern states to the industrial regions farther south, said Patrick Graichen, director of Agora Energiewende, a think tank focused on the shift to renewable energy. 
"Between now and 2030, there are still 12 years, so a government can speed up processes and get things done," Mr. Graichen said. 
The situation in the former East Germany is especially difficult. Creating jobs there would require attracting new investors to the region which, despite being only 80 miles east of Berlin, has only a single-track railway connecting it to the capital and little industry beyond lignite. 
One of the biggest employers is LEAG, which owns and operates several mines and power plants, providing 8,000 jobs. 
Hanna Buchmann and Nora Gundermann, both 18, started traineeships there in August and believe the company can offer them a future. 
"LEAG offered the best opportunities and the best pay. They are really the only company here in the region," said Ms. Buchmann, who took part in the demonstration in Cottbus. 
Tensions are playing out in western Germany as well. Last month, a dispute over the power company RWE's plan to clear half of a 500-acre forest to expand the Hambach lignite mine exploded into a clash between the police and protesters who had been squatting in tree houses and tents. 
The events threatened to derail the commission's work, after representatives from environmental groups threatened to quit the body unless RWE halted the clearing. The power company refused, until a court ordered it to suspend the plans pending a further ruling, not expected before 2020. 
While the company warned of "far-reaching ramifications," environmental activists celebrated the ruling as a first step in the difficult decision of how to wean Germany off its most significant and abundant fossil fuel. 
"Hambach has become a symbol for the fight against coal," said Dirk Jansen, the general manager for the regional chapter of Friends of the Earth Germany, which filed the suit. "The final match for brown coal has begun." 

Photograph 
A Mine in Eastern Germany. The Move Away From Coal Poses Economic and Social Challenges. (Photograph by Gordon Welters for the New York Times) 
Copyright New York Times Company Oct 11, 2018 
Subject 	Mines; 

Emissions; 

Electricity distribution; 
Coal mining; 

Coal-fired power plants; 
Alternative energy sources; 

Energy resources; 

Leadership; 

Energy industry; 

Industrial plant emissions; 

Employment; 

Climate change 


Location 	Spain; New York; Germany; East Germany; Poland 
People 	Merkel, Angela 
Company / organization 	Name: New York Times Co 

NAICS: 511110, 511120, 515112, 515120; 


Name: Alternative for Germany NAICS: 813940; 
Name: United Nations--UN NAICS: 928120; 
Name: Friends of the Earth NAICS: 813312; 
Name: Democratic Party NAICS: 813940; 
Name: Greenpeace NAICS: 813312, 813940; Name: International Energy Agency NAICS: 541720, 926130, 928120 
Title  Why Germany Remains Addicted to Coal 15 Years After Pledge to Dial Back: [Foreign Desk]  
Author  Eddy, Melissa  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.6  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Oct 11, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2117671695  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2117671695?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Oct 11, 2018  
Last updated  2018-10-11  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 54 of 236 


'A Deafening, Piercing Smoke Alarm': [Editorial] 
New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]10 Oct 2018: A.20. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=%27A+Deafening%2C+Piercing+Smoke+Alarm%27%3A+%5BEditorial%5D& 10-10&volume=&issue=&spage=A.20&au=&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
When a cautious, science-based and largely apolitical group like the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change says the world must utterly transform its energy systems in the next decade or risk ecological and social disaster, attention must be paid. 
The panel, created in 1988, synthesizes the findings of leading climate scientists, an undertaking for which it received the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize. It is not in the habit of lecturing governments. But its latest report, issued near Seoul on Monday, is very different. One United Nations official described it as "a deafening, piercing smoke alarm going off in the kitchen" -- an alarm aimed directly at world leaders. "Frankly, we've delivered a message to the governments," said Jim Skea, a co-chairman of the panel and a professor at Imperial College, London. "It's now their responsibility ... to decide whether they can act on it." 
Unfortunately, no alarm seems loud enough to penetrate the walls of the White House or the cranium of its principal occupant. President Trump had nothing substantive to say about the report, preferring, his staff said, to focus on celebrating the elevation of Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court. Having already announced that he would withdraw the United States from the 2015 Paris agreement on climate change, having also rolled back a suite of Obama-era efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, Mr. Trump thus reaffirmed his sorry role as an outlier in the global struggle against climate change -- a struggle few believe can be won without the enthusiastic participation of the United States. 
The report, written by 91 scientists from 40 countries, came about at the request of several small island nations that took part in the Paris talks, where 195 countries pledged their best efforts to limit increases in global warming to 3.6 degrees (2 degrees Celsius) above preindustrial levels. Fearing that their countries might someday be lost to rising seas, they asked the intergovernmental panel for further study of a lower threshold, 2.7 degrees Fahrenheit (1.5 degrees Celsius). The panel's report concluded that the stricter threshold should become the new target. The alternative is catastrophe -- mass die-offs of coral reefs, widespread drought, famine and wildfires, and potentially conflict over land, food and fresh water. 
But how to achieve that lower threshold? Global emissions continue to rise, albeit slowly. The panel said a mammoth effort is needed, beginning now and carrying through the century, to decarbonize global energy systems. The next 10 years are absolutely crucial: Emissions will have to be on a sharp downward path by 2030 for any hope of success. Greenhouse gases must be cut nearly in half from 2010 levels. Renewable energy sources must increase from about 20 percent of the electricity mix today to as much as 67 percent. The use of coal would need to be phased out, vanishing almost entirely by midcentury. 
The bottom line: We've got a decade or so to get climate change under control, and there is no such thing as a gentle glide path. We have to take a firm grip on the emissions curve and wrench it downward. 
This will take enormous public and private investment and technological progress, even a breakthrough or two. Electric cars would become the order of the day. The public would become more actively engaged, instead of tossing the problem to the next generation and those that follow. Individuals have a great deal more power than they think: They can insulate their homes, install smart thermostats, choose public transportation, buy more fuel-efficient cars and appliances, even change their diet -- livestock are estimated to account for some 14.5 percent of greenhouse gas emissions globally. 
Perhaps the most important thing the public can do right now is seek out and support candidates who take this threat seriously. Also ballot measures: In Washington State, Gov. Jay Inslee is asking voters to approve a carbon tax. It would be the first of its kind, in any state, and could serve as an inspiration for others. 
For every outlier like Mr. Trump, there are scores of political leaders who see the problem and know that the world has yet to fully respond to it. "We have presented governments with pretty hard choices," Professor Skea said. "We show it can be done within laws of physics and chemistry. Then the final tick box is political will. We cannot answer that. Only our audience can -- and that is the governments that receive it." 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion) . 
Credit: THE EDITORIAL BOARD 
Copyright New York Times Company Oct 10, 2018 
Subject 	Editorials; Pollution control; Greenhouse gases; Paris Agreement; Environmental policy; 
Emissions; 

Energy policy; 
Greenhouse effect; 
Climate change 


Location  United States--US  
People  Trump, Donald J  
Company / organization  Name: United Nations--UN  
NAICS: 928120;  
Name: Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change  
NAICS: 541712, 928120  
Title  'A Deafening, Piercing Smoke Alarm': [Editorial]  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.20  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Oct 10, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  2117291301  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2117291301?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Oct 10, 2018  
Last updated  2018-10-11  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 55 of 236 


Projection On Climate Is Ominous. Now What?: [Foreign Desk] 
Sengupta, Somini.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]10 Oct 2018: A.8. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Projection+On+Climate+Is+Ominous.+Now+What%3F%3A+%5BForeign+Desk% 10-10&volume=&issue=&spage=A.8&au=Sengupta%2C+Somini&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd: , our email newsletter. 
Now that the bad news has dropped, what is the world going to do? 
A report issued Sunday by 91 scientists painted a stark portrait of how quickly the planet is heating up and how serious the consequences are. In response, the United Nations 

secretary general, António Guterres, warned world leaders, "Do what science demands before it is too late." 

The latest figures from the International Energy Agency don't suggest that many are listening: Carbon dioxide emissions from the energy sector continued to grow through 2017, with a projected rise for 2018, according to the agency. The next two months will be crucial. In December, experts and officials from around the world will gather in Katowice, Poland, for a new round of international climate 
negotiations. 
What about the Paris Agreement? 
Every country agreed, nearly three years ago, to set its own targets to bring down its greenhouse gas emissions. That's the good news. 
The deal specifically aspired to keep warming well below 2 degrees Celsius (3.7 degrees Fahrenheit) from preindustrial levels. And, it was worded in such a way that countries 

would, over time, have to get more ambitious in their emissions reductions. 

That's not going well. And it's not just because the Trump administration announced its intention to pull out of that deal. The United States, history's largest polluter, is nowhere 
close to meeting its emissions reductions targets. 
Russia, one of the world's largest emitters, has not yet ratified the Paris Agreement. Brazil's greenhouse gas emissions have grown recently, mainly because large swathes of 

forest were converted to farmland, and the leading contender in Brazil's presidential election, Jair Bolsonaro, has suggested pulling his country out of the Paris deal, too. 
Australia also appears unlikely to meet its targets under its new prime minister, Scott Morrison, a champion of the country's coal mining industry. 

With rich countries falling short, some developing countries are starting to balk. Where's the fund you promised to help us cope, they want to know. 
The United States, under President Trump, has backed out of contributing what had been its share to the Green Climate Fund, designed to help poor countries deal with the 
effects of climate change. The Australian prime minister this week dismissed the fund too, saying, "I'm not going to spend money on global climate conferences and all that 
nonsense." 

What's the next step? 

The report Sunday, by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, looms over the December talks in Katowice, in the heart of Poland's coal belt. Whether and how the 
report shapes the content of the negotiations is now being fought over. 
Some countries would prefer to keep the discussions limited to technical issues, like what kinds of rules should be established to implement the Paris accord. Others, led by 

small island countries like the Marshall Islands, want the meeting to go much further and consider tougher emissions targets. 

The European Union on Tuesday signaled that it may put higher ambitions on the table, saying the report made it "a matter of extreme urgency to strengthen the global 
response to the threat of climate change." 
Scientists have often been far ahead of diplomats on the subject of climate change, and so even activists who are pressing for more ambitious action are sounding cautious 

about how much impact this bombshell of a report will have. 

"It should be a fire under the chairs of the leaders and their negotiators," said David Waskow, who follows international negotiations for the World Resources Institute, a 
research organization. "The question right now is, in fact, are leaders going to hear this wake up alarm?" 
What would it take to avoid the worst? 

There is wide consensus among scientists that a few big things need to happen, and many policymakers know it, too. They include switching electricity supply systems from coal, weaning cars and trucks off gasoline, and saving forests, because they're a big carbon sink. There's also wide agreement that there should be a price on pollution, in the form of a carbon tax. 
All of that has been on the table for quite some time. As President Emmanuel Macron of France pointed out on Twitter, "The I.P.C.C. brings scientific proof: We have everything we need to combat climate change. But everyone has to act now!" 
Why is this hard? There are political headwinds of various kinds. 
In the United States, Charles and David Koch, libertarian billionaire brothers with deep interests in the fossil fuel sector, have handsomely funded efforts to block a carbon tax. In Brazil, the powerful agribusiness lobby, buoyed by global demand for soybeans, has pushed to convert more forest land into farmland. In Canada, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau's carbon tax proposal faces intense pushback from the provinces. And China, as the factory of the world, keeps burning coal to feed its manufacturing sector. 
The one difference with China is that, for the sake of domestic political stability, China's leaders are eager to clean up the air. China is expected to reach peak emissions in 2030. 
The question is when does that political tipping point come for other countries? And does the science matter at all? 
"There's a big gap between what the science requires and what governments are delivering," said Mohamed Adow, who follows climate change for Christian Aid, a London-based development charity. He called the I.P.C.C. report "a game changer." 
"There's no excuse for governments anymore," he said. 
For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. 

Photograph 
The Coal Terminal in Newcastle, Australia. The Country, Like Many Big Carbon Emitters, Is Unlikely to Meet Targets Agreed to in the Paris Agreement Three Years Ago. (Photograph by Brendon Thorne/Bloomberg) 
Copyright New York Times Company Oct 10, 2018 
Subject 	Scientists; 
Political activism; 

Emissions; 

Environmental tax; 

Greenhouse effect; 
Climate change; 
Greenhouse gases; 
Carbon; 
Social networks; 
Paris Agreement; 

Coal 


Location 	Russia; Canada; Marshall Islands; Australia; Brazil; Poland; France; United States--US; China 
People 	Trump, Donald J; Trudeau, Justin; Bolsonaro, Jair; Macron, Emmanuel 
Company / organization 	Name: International Energy Agency 

NAICS: 541720, 926130, 928120; 


Name: United Nations--UN NAICS: 928120; 
Name: Twitter Inc NAICS: 519130; 
Name: World Resources Institute NAICS: 813910; 
Name: European Union NAICS: 926110, 928120; 
Name: Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change NAICS: 541712, 928120 
Title  Projection On Climate Is Ominous. Now What?: [Foreign Desk]  
Author  Sengupta, Somini  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  

Pages  A.8  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Oct 10, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2117290600  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2117290600?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Oct 10, 2018  
Last updated  2018-10-11  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 56 of 236 


Climate Warning Hits Silent Wall On Trump's Desk: [Foreign Desk] 
Landler, Mark; Davenport, Coral.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]09 Oct 2018: A.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Climate+Warning+Hits+Silent+Wall+On+Trump%27s+Desk%3A+%5BForeign+D 10-09&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Landler%2C+Mark%3BDavenport%2C+Coral&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- A day after the United Nations issued its most urgent call to arms yet for the world to confront the threat of climate change, President Trump boarded Air Force One for Florida -- a state that lies directly in the path of this coming calamity -- and said nothing about it. 
It was the latest, most vivid example of Mr. Trump's dissent from an effort that has galvanized much of the world. While the United Nations warned of mass wildfires, food shortages and dying coral reefs as soon as 2040, Mr. Trump discussed his successful Supreme Court battle rather than how rising seawaters are already flooding Miami on sunny days. 
The president's isolation is not just from the world: In California, New York, Massachusetts and other states, governments and companies are pushing ahead with regulations and technological innovations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. 
That bottom-up activism is a source of hope for those who have watched in despair since last year when Mr. Trump declared he would pull the United States out of the Paris climate accord. But experts say it is no substitute for the world's largest economy, and second-largest emitter of carbon dioxide, turning its back on the fight. 
"You have this enormous discrepancy between the White House and, essentially, everyone else," said Johan Rockström, the director of the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research in Germany. "The leadership in Washington is really moving against the whole agenda." 
The United Nations report paints a far more dire picture of the immediate consequences of climate change than previously thought and says that avoiding the damage requires transforming the world economy at a speed and scale that has "no documented historic precedent." 
It describes a world of worsening food shortages and poverty; more wildfires; and a mass die-off of coral reefs as soon as 2040 -- a period well within the lifetime of much of the global population. 
Among climate-change scientists, there were increasing fears that Mr. Trump's withdrawal from the Paris accord, which at first seemed a lonely act of defiance, may embolden other countries to leave it as well. 
In Brazil, voters are on track to elect a new president, Jair Bolsonaro, who has vowed to withdraw his country, the world's seventh-largest emitter of greenhouse gases, from the pact. 
Mr. Trump's announcement last year prompted a show of solidarity from the other 194 countries that signed the accord, not to mention American political and business leaders who rallied under the slogan, "We are still in!" But to populists like Mr. Bolsonaro, Mr. Trump's demands that the United States be given a better deal could prove appealing. 
"To the extent that we get these narrow-minded, so-called nationalist, populist leaders, we could have a big problem," said John P. Holdren, who served as President Barack Obama's chief science adviser. "Brazil, with its huge area of forests, is going to suffer terribly from climate change." 
Beyond the domino effect, Mr. Holdren, who is now a professor at Harvard's Kennedy School, said there were other immediate costs to what he called "the squandering of U.S. leadership on an acute global issue." 
Mr. Trump, who has mocked the science of human-caused climate change, cut the American contribution to a global fund that supports climate mitigation and assistance efforts in developing countries by two-thirds, to $1 billion. He has tried to cut government funding of climate-related research -- an effort that Congress has so far resisted. 
The White House issued no public response to the United Nations report, which was issued Monday in South Korea at a meeting of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, a group of scientists convened by the United Nations to guide world leaders. 
"Not today," said Bill Shine, the White House communications director. "It's a Kavanaugh night." 
After Mr. Trump returned Monday from Orlando, Fla., where he spoke to a convention of police chiefs and referred to the hurricane now approaching that state, he attended a White House ceremony to swear in Judge Brett M. Kavanaugh as an associate justice of the Supreme Court. 
Following the ceremony, Lindsay E. Walters, a deputy press secretary, said, "The United States is leading the world in providing affordable, abundant and secure energy to our citizens, while protecting the environment and reducing emissions through job-creating innovation." 
She noted that carbon dioxide-related emissions declined 14 percent in the United States from 2005 to 2017, while they rose 21 percent globally during the same period. 
On Saturday, an American delegation in South Korea joined more than 180 countries in accepting the report's summary for policymakers, but a statement from the State Department added that it "does not imply endorsement by the United States of the specific findings or underlying contents of the report." 
The report "is quite a shock, and quite concerning," said Bill Hare, an author of previous Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change reports and a physicist with Climate Analytics, a nonprofit organization. "We were not aware of this just a few years ago." 
The authors found that if greenhouse gas emissions continue at the current rate, the atmosphere will warm by as much as 2.7 degrees Fahrenheit, or 1.5 degrees Celsius, above preindustrial levels by 2040. 
The Paris accord set a goal of preventing warming of more than 3.6 degrees above preindustrial levels -- long considered a threshold for the most severe social and economic damage from climate change. But the heads of small island nations, fearful of rising sea levels, had also asked scientists to examine the effects of 2.7 degrees of warming. 
Without aggressive action, many effects that scientists once expected to happen further in the future will arrive by 2040, and at the lower temperature, the report shows. 
"It's telling us we need to reverse emissions trends and turn the world economy on a dime," said Myles Allen, an Oxford University climate scientist and an author of the report. 
To prevent 2.7 degrees of warming, the report said, greenhouse emissions must be reduced by 45 percent from 2010 levels by 2030, and by 100 percent by 2050. It also found that use of coal as an electricity source would have to drop from nearly 40 percent today to 1 to 7 percent by 2050. 
"This report makes it clear: There is no way to mitigate climate change without getting rid of coal," said Drew Shindell, a climate scientist at Duke University and an author of the report. Mr. Trump has vowed to increase the burning of coal. 
"It makes me feel angry when I think about the U.S. government," Mr. Shindell said. "My kids feel like it's their future being destroyed." He watched as the grounds of his son's high school in Durham, N.C., and the roads around it flooded last month after Hurricane Florence. 
Dr. Allen said there was little question the report will be ignored in Washington. "The current administration doesn't seem interested in it all," he said, although he added that as a scientist, he takes the long view. 
"One way or another," he said, "the facts do win out." 
Mr. Trump encouraged scientists recently when he nominated Kelvin Droegemeier, a well-respected meteorologist who is an expert on extreme weather, to lead the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy. The post had been vacant since Mr. Trump took office. 
But it is unlikely that Mr. Droegemeier will change the president's views on climate change, and other influential aides are hardly going to challenge him. 
For example, the Trump administration's counterterrorism strategy, released last week, made no mention of climate change as a cause for extremism. The Obama administration regularly cited it in threat assessments because of its effect on migration and the competition for food and water. 
"I don't think climate change is a cause of international terrorism," said the national security adviser, John R. Bolton. 
For all that, scientists said that they saw a few rays of sunshine amid the clouds. A Democratic takeover of the House would raise the odds that Congress would continue blocking cuts to research. And despite his criticism of the Paris accord as "very unfair" to the United States, Mr. Trump has left the door open to staying in the deal, if the terms were improved. 
"I have been of the opinion all along that we can definitely see the U.S. back in the Paris agreement, even under Trump," Mr. Rockström said. 
Legally, he noted, the United States cannot formally withdraw from the pact until 2020, and the agreement's terms are voluntary. 
"He can sit there in the White House and draw up his own plan," Mr. Rockström said. 
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 
Credit: MARK LANDLER and CORAL DAVENPORT; Mark L andler reported from Washington, and Coral Davenport from Incheon, South Korea. Reporting was contributed by Somini Sengupta. 
Photograph 
From Top, Harry Taylor, 6, Playing with the Bones of Dead Livestock On His Family Farm in New South Wales, Australia, Where Farmers Are Battling a Crippling Drought; a Wildfire Burning in the Shasta-Trinity National Forest, Calif.; and Super Typhoon Mangkhut Barreling Into Hong Kong. (Photographs by Brook Mitchell/Getty Images; Noah Berger/Associated Press; Alex Hofford/Epa, Via Shutterstock) 
Copyright New York Times Company Oct 9, 2018 
Subject 	Emissions; 

Greenhouse effect; 
Climate change; 
Global warming; 
Environmental protection; 
Environmental policy; 
Political leadership 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Trump, Donald J 
Company / organization 	Name: United Nations--UN 

NAICS: 928120; 

Name: Congress 
NAICS:  921120;  
Name:  Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change  
NAICS:  541712, 928120  

Title  Climate Warning Hits Silent Wall On Trump's Desk: [Foreign Desk]  
Author  Landler, Mark; Davenport, Coral  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.1  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Oct 9, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2117046802  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2117046802?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Oct 9, 2018  
Last updated  2018-10-09  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 57 of 236 



Stopping Climate Change Is Hopeless. Let's Do It.: [Op-Ed] 
Schendler, Auden; Jones, Andrew P.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]07 Oct 2018: SR.10. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Stopping+Climate+Change+Is+Hopeless.+Let%27s+Do+It.%3A+%5BOp­Ed%5D&title=New+York+Times&issn=03624331&date=2018-10­07&volume=&issue=&spage=SR.10&au=Schendler%2C+Auden%3BJones%2C+Andrew+P&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
On Monday, the world's leading climate scientists are expected to release a report on how to protect civilization by limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius, or 2.7 degrees Fahrenheit. Given the rise already in the global temperature average, this critical goal is 50 percent more stringent than the current target of 2 degrees Celsius, which many scientists were already skeptical we could meet. So we're going to have to really want it, and even then it will be tough. 
The world would need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions faster than has ever been achieved, and do it everywhere, for 50 years. Northern European countries reduced emissions about 4 to 5 percent per year in the 1970s. We'd need reductions of 6 to 9 percent. Every year, in every country, for half a century. 
We'd need to spread the world's best climate practices globally -- like electric cars in Norway, energy efficiency in California, land protection in Costa Rica, solar and wind power in China, vegetarianism in India, bicycle use in the Netherlands. 
We'd face opposition the whole way. To have a prayer of 1.5 degrees Celsius, we would need to leave most of the remaining coal, oil and gas underground, compelling the Exxon Mobils and Saudi Aramcos to forgo anticipated revenues of over $33 trillion over the next 25 years. 
And while the air would almost immediately be cleaner and people healthier, the heartbreaking impacts of climate change -- flooding in London, New York and Shanghai, as well as in Mumbai, India; Hanoi, Vietnam; Alexandria, Egypt; and Jakarta, Indonesia, to touch on just one consequence -- would continue for decades, regardless of emissions cuts, because of the long life of man-made greenhouse gases already in the atmosphere. 
Some cynical news headlines will certainly follow the report: "Scientists Agree -- We're Cooked!" The headline writers would have a point. Solving climate is going to be harder, and more improbable, than winning World War II, achieving civil rights, defeating bacterial infection and sending a man to the moon all together. 
So how do we engage in a possibly -- but not probably -- winnable struggle within a rigged system against great odds, the ultimate results of which we'll never see? Forget success, how do we even get out of bed in the morning? 
We could order in Chinese and lock ourselves in the closet, but we shouldn't. Because there's good news: We're perfect for the job. If the human species specializes in one thing, it's taking on the impossible. 
We are constitutionally equipped to understand this situation. We are, after all, mortal, and so our very existence is a fight against inevitable demise. We also have experience: The wicked challenges we've faced through the ages have often been seemingly insurmountable. The Black Death killed off at least a third of Europe in its time. World War II claimed 50 million lives. We won those battles -- sort of. We've spent our time as Homo sapiens fighting what J.R.R. Tolkien called "the long defeat." 
Historically, we've tackled the biggest challenge -- that of meaning, and the question of how to live a life -- through the concept of "practice," in the form of religion, cultural tradition or disciplines like yoga or martial arts. Given the stark facts, this approach might be the most useful. Practice has value independent of outcome; it's a way of life, not a job with a clear payoff. A joyful habit. The right way to live. 
Such an approach will require dropping the American focus on destination over journey, and releasing the concepts of "winning" and "winners," at least in the short term. As the journalist I.F. Stone was said to have explained: "The only kinds of fights worth fighting are those you are going to lose because somebody has to fight them and lose and lose and lose until someday, somebody who believes as you do wins." He added: "You mustn't feel like a martyr. You've got to enjoy it." Or as Camus put it: "One must imagine Sisyphus happy." 
To save civilization, most of us would need to supplement our standard daily practices -- eating, caring for family and community, faith -- with a steady push on the big forces that are restraining progress, the most prominent being the fossil fuel industry's co-option of government, education, science and media. This practice starts with a deep understanding of the problem, so it will mean reading a little about climate science. Our actions must be to scale, so while we undertake individual steps in our lives, like retrofitting light bulbs, we must realize that real progress comes from voting, running for office, marching in protest, writing letters, and uncomfortable but respectful conversations with fathers-in-law. This work must be habitual. Every day some learning and conversation. Every week a call to Congress. Every year a donation to a nonprofit advancing the cause. In other words, a practice. 
Maybe this approach doesn't seem as noble as, say, our memory of the civil rights movement. But that era's continuous, workmanlike grinding probably didn't feel all that glorious then, either. With history as our judge, though, it does. And we know what happens when enough people take up a cause as practice: Cultural norms change. Think gay marriage. Think the sharp decline in smoking in the United States. 
There should be no shortage of motivation. Solving climate change presents humanity with the opportunity to save civilization from collapse and create aspects of what the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. called "the beloved community." The work would endow our lives with some of the oldest and most numinous aspirations of humankind: leading a good life; treating our neighbors well; imbuing our short existence with timeless ideas like grace, dignity, respect, tolerance and love. The climate struggle embodies the essence of what it means to be human, which is that we strive for the divine. 
Perhaps the rewards of solving climate change are so compelling, so nurturing and so natural a piece of the human soul that we can't help but do it. 
Auden Schendler is a board member of Protect Our Winters and the author of "Getting Green Done." Andrew P. Jones is co-founder of Climate Interactive, which contributed 
climate scenarios to the latest report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. 

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion) . 

Illustration 
Drawing (Drawing by Claire Merchlinsky) Copyright New York Times Company Oct 7, 2018 
Subject 
Location 
Company / organization 
Title 
Author 
Publication title 
Pages 
Publication year 
Publication date 
Section 
Publisher 
Place of publication 
Country of publication 
Publication subject 
ISSN 
Source type 
Language of publication 
Document type 
ProQuest document ID 
Document URL 
Writers; 
Scientists; 
Emissions; 

Greenhouse effect; 
Climate change; 
Civilization; 
World War II; 
Civil rights; 
Global warming; 
Greenhouse gases 


United States--US 


Name: Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 

NAICS: 541712, 928120 


Stopping Climate Change Is Hopeless. Let's Do It.: [Op-Ed] 

Schendler, Auden; Jones, Andrew P 


New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 


SR.10 

2018 

Oct 7, 2018 

SR 

New York Times Company 

New York, N.Y. 

United States, New York, N.Y. 

General Interest Periodicals--United States 


03624331 

Newspapers 
English 
Opinions, Commentary 
2116780481 
https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2116780481?accountid=14902 
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Oct 7, 2018  
Last updated  2018-10-09  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 58 of 236 



Why Wilder Storms? It's a 'Loaded Dice' Problem: [Foreign Desk] 
Sengupta, Somini.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]06 Oct 2018: A.8. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Why+Wilder+Storms%3F+It%27s+a+%27Loaded+Dice%27+Problem%3A+%5 10-06&volume=&issue=&spage=A.8&au=Sengupta%2C+Somini&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd: , our email newsletter. 
Torrential rainfall lashed Japan in July. A cloudburst in August submerged entire villages in south India. In September, Hurricane Florence burst dams and lagoons, with coal ash and pig waste spilling into the waterways of North Carolina. On the other side of the planet, a typhoon walloped the Philippines and ravaged the country's staple crop, rice. Climate scientists can't say where or when the next big storm will hit, but all the evidence points to this: Global warming is bringing the planet into an era of wilder, more 
dangerous rains with ruinous and long-lasting consequences. 
"Where it rains, it's raining heavier," said Raghu Murtugudde, a professor of Earth systems science at the University of Maryland who edited a recent book on extreme weather in the tropics. "It's the classic loaded-dice analogy." The dice, he said, are "throwing up some numbers more often" in the form of extreme weather. How? The greenhouse gases humans have already injected into the atmosphere 
have heated up the planet and now pack so much moisture into the air that they heighten the risk of more extreme precipitation. 
The good news is that floods and storms don't kill as many people as they once did. 
Early warning systems are in place. So are shelters. People have learned to evacuate from danger zones, including in flood-prone places like the lowlands of Bangladesh, where 

individual storms once killed tens of thousands of people. In the Philippines this year, Typhoon Mangkhut left a death toll of 100, sharply lower than the 6,000 fatalities from Haiyan, one of the strongest storms ever recorded, which hit the country in 2013. 
The bad news is everything else. Even after floodwaters recede, the ruin from a storm can be felt for a very long time. 
A study of more than 6,500 cyclones found that tropical storms, especially if they struck frequently, could substantially alter a country's economic trajectory. Researchers found 
that in countries hit by the storms, national incomes hadn't caught up to their previous pace of growth even 15 years after the disaster. 

Storms have struck the Philippines very frequently. And they have affected how the country feeds itself. 

Between 2006 and 2013, the Philippines was pummeled by 76 natural disasters, primarily floods and tropical storms, with an estimated $3.8 billion in losses to the country's 
agricultural sector over that 8-year period, according to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization. 
This year, because of Typhoon Mangkhut, which struck the country's rice belt, the Philippines is expected to import much more rice than it otherwise would have. 
Sometimes, a disaster can reverberate years later in unexpected ways. In the Philippines, researchers found, baby girls were more likely to die in the two years after a typhoon 

than at other times, a reflection of the grim decisions that families made about how to stretch their resources in the aftermath of disaster. 

And in Peru, children born right before or right after the 1997-98 El Niño storm cycle that ruined roads and destroyed crops were more likely to be stunted, a symptom of 
malnutrition that can diminish a child's intellectual capacity for life, according to another study. 
On average, floods and storms have displaced nearly 21 million people every year over the last decade, according to the Internal Displacement Monitoring Center. That is three 

times the number displaced by conflict. 

Worldwide, according to Munich Re, the world's largest reinsurer, damaging floods and storms have more than tripled in number since the early 1980s. Their economic losses 
have risen sharply, too, with two record years in the last decade in which damages topped $340 billion. The company said 2017 was "a wake up call." 
"The slow speed of adaptation to the higher risks is my biggest issue," said Ernst Rauch, chief climatologist at Munich Re. "We all know, we should know, the risks are 

changing." 

Preparing for that future of wilder storms, climate scientists acknowledge, is especially difficult when it's hard to pinpoint, when, where and how often extreme weather will 
strike, except to warn that it will. 
In the United States, heavy downpours in most parts of the country have increased "in both intensity and frequency since 1901," a report by the National Oceanic and 

Atmospheric Administration concluded in 2017. The largest increases were in the Northeast. 

NOAA also said 2017 was a record year for high-tide floods. And 2017 was a particularly nasty hurricane year, in part because of the warming of the Atlantic Ocean, with six major hurricanes with wind speeds of at least 111 miles per hour. 
"The problem is how much money am I willing to spend for how much protection when I know only that we need more protection but not how much," said Anders Levermann, a climate scientist at Potsdam University in Germany. 
The cost of doing nothing is likely to be steep. Dr. Levermann's team concluded that river floods alone would result in global economic losses of approximately 17 percent worldwide in the next 20 years. 
Climate change, though, doesn't just bring more rain. While some of the wettest parts of the world are seeing heavier and more unpredictable precipitation, scientists say, some drier parts of the planet are becoming measurably drier. 
The combination can be dangerous. 
In India, for instance, even as total annual rainfall has dipped slightly, bursts of intense rain are becoming more powerful, one recent study concluded. Another group of researchers drilled down to find that, in the center of India between 1950 and 2015, there was a threefold increase in what were once rare cloudbursts, those that dump 150 millimeters, or nearly six inches, or more of rain on a single day. 
Lisa Goddard, director of the International Research Institute at Columbia University, compared the atmosphere to "a big giant sponge" that grows heavy with moisture and, at some point when it's too heavy, has to be squeezed out, resulting in intense rains. 
The results can be overwhelming. If emissions continue to rise and global temperatures grow by 2 degrees Celsius, the mighty Ganges River could double in volume, with devastating consequences for the hundreds of millions of people who live in its basin. 
All that unpredictability creates painful choices for government officials who manage reservoirs and dams: Whether to store water in case of drought, or release it to avert floods. 
Take Kerala, one of India's richer states, for instance. Its record rains this summer followed a long dry spell. After years, the reservoirs were good and full. And even though meteorologists warned of unusually heavy rains in August, dam operators did not open the floodgates in advance. It was a difficult call: What if the forecasts were wrong? What if the rains didn't come? 
By the time the dam gates were opened, it was too late. The water engulfed whole villages and towns. More than 500 people died. 
The devastation was only beginning. Soon came an outbreak of leptospirosis, a bacterial disease that can damage the liver and kidneys and is sometimes fatal. More than 57,000 hectares of farmland were decimated. Yields of Kerala's high-value spices, including cardamom and black pepper, were sharply hit. 
Even the best forecasts, Dr. Murtugudde pointed out, are only as good as the people who use them. To avert the worst impacts of disaster in the age of wild rains, it's not just the science that matters, he said, but the ability of climate experts to persuade the people to follow the science. 
"You have to get them to trust the forecast," he said. 
Ayesha Venkataraman contributed reporting from Mumbai and Hisako Ueno contributed from Tokyo. 
For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. 

Photograph 
Ahmadabad, India, in August. Even As Total Annual Rainfall in the Country has Declined, Bursts of Intense Rain Are Becoming More Powerful, a Recent Study Found. (Photograph by Ajit Solanki/Associated Press); Top, Tokyo in July. Torrential Rains in Japan From a Typhoon Caused Flooding and Landslides. Above, Latta, S.C., Last Month After Hurricane Florence Had Passed Through. (Photographs by Jiji Press/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images; Johnny Milano for the New York Times); Itogon, Phillipines, Where Typhoon Mangkhut Killed Dozens in September and Struck the Country's Rice Belt. (Photograph by Jes Aznar for the New York Times) 
Copyright New York Times Company Oct 6, 2018 
Subject 	Fatalities; 

Floods; 

Storms; 
Rain 


Location 	Bangladesh; Ganges River; United States--US; New York; India; Philippines; Germany; Peru; 

North Carolina; France; Atlantic Ocean; Japan; Mumbai India 


Company / organization 	Name: New York Times Co 

NAICS: 511110, 511120, 515112, 515120; 


Name: United Nations--UN NAICS: 928120; 
Name: Columbia University NAICS: 611310; 
Name: Twitter Inc NAICS: 519130; 
Name: University of Maryland NAICS: 611310; Name: National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration--NOAA NAICS: 924120 
Title  Why Wilder Storms? It's a 'Loaded Dice' Problem: [Foreign Desk]  
Author  Sengupta, Somini  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.8  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Oct 6, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2116569064  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2116569064?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Oct 6, 2018  
Last updated  2018-10-06  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 59 of 236 


Of Time, Tides And Trump: [Op-Ed] 
Collins, Gail.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]20 Sep 2018: A.23. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Of+Time%2C+Tides+And+Trump%3A+%5BOp­Ed%5D&title=New+York+Times&issn=03624331&date=2018-09­20&volume=&issue=&spage=A.23&au=Collins%2C+Gail&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
O.K., I know you're obsessed about sex and the Supreme Court. But the hurricane flooding in North Carolina has been terrible. Let's give it some serious thought right now. 
Particularly when it comes to ways the government screwed up. First lesson is easy. Coastal flooding is getting way, way worse because of global warming. So obviously we've 
got to join other nations in combating this universally recognized threat. 
Hahahahaha. 
Yeah, yeah. President Trump does not believe in climate change. Who among us can forget the time he claimed the whole idea was a Chinese plot to ruin American 

manufacturing? 

Maybe he'll evolve. After all, Trump does occasionally show some concern for nature. When he visited North Carolina on Wednesday, he particularly inquired about the well­being of the state's Lake Norman. ("I love that area -- I can't tell you why, but I love that area.") 
Well-informed observers did note that there happens to be a Trump golf club on Lake Norman's shores. 
The president came in for some criticism when, while distributing free hot dog lunches, he told one flood victim to "have a good time." It is absolutely true that our commander 

in chief tends to babble. But in the grand scheme of things, this would seem to rank much lower as a problem than, say, ignoring the rising oceans and exploding weather systems. 
If we're not going to do anything to keep the waters from encroaching, the least the government can do is to stop developers from building housing on the growing flood plain. North Carolina seemed to be thinking along these lines when it commissioned experts to figure out how much the sea level was likely to rise over the next century. They concluded the water could go up by as much as 39 inches by 2100. 
"We were ready to step up to the plate and take a hard look at this long-term problem ..." one scientist told Times reporters. 
Go, North Carolina! 
"... and we blew it," he concluded. 
Whoops. State lawmakers basically ordered the government to ignore the study. 
Some North Carolina politicians are still struggling to get this right, and it would obviously be helpful if they got some encouragement from the Federal Emergency Management 

Agency, which is supposed to be our go-to expert on climatic disaster. FEMA is also the place to look if you want to reform the federal flood insurance program, which is 

currently underwriting developments in the wrong places, water-wise. 
Right now, FEMA is being run by Brock Long, who seems to have been spending a lot of his time making a 400-mile commute from his home to his office in Washington, using 
government vehicles. And much of the rest explaining why this is a good plan. 

Well, on the plus side, Long lives in North Carolina. At least he can contemplate the flooding on his way to and from work. Let's hope so, since you're paying for the drive. And 
the aides he sometimes brings along and who stay in nearby hotels. 
Maybe there should be a rule requiring that government officials who insist on bringing staffers home with them have to put their helpers up in the family guest room. 

Finally, we're getting to the moment -- a high point in all stories about the environment in North Carolina -- when we discuss the hog lagoons. 
Hog lagoons are basically huge bodies of pig poop. The waste is treated with bacteria that turns it pink. I flew over one of these suckers, and if you ever want to experience 
what it feels like to soar above what appears to be a large lake of strange-smelling Pepto-Bismol, this is the ticket. 

The good news on the hog-lagoon front (Did you ever think you'd read a sentence starting with: "The good news on the hog-lagoon front"?) is that North Carolina farmers, officials, and even some of the Big Pork corporations that created the whole system, have been working to get it under control. 
A lot more could probably be done faster if, say, the federal government put big money into closing down hog farms in flood plains. The farmers, you will be happy to hear, are pretty enthusiastic about getting compensation to transition into some new crop that does not create lakes of manure in their neighborhood. 
"As we look toward recovery, we look toward fully funding the lagoon buyout program," said Maggie Monast of the Environmental Defense Fund. 
The Department of Agriculture has actually been some help. But what are the chances we'll see the Environmental Protection Agency spring into action? The E.P.A., you may remember, was until recently headed by Scott Pruitt, the guy with the affinity for first-class air flights and using siren-and-police-light motorcades to get through traffic when he was on his way to dinner. 
God, will we never get a cabinet member who likes to take the occasional bus? Now Pruitt is gone and the E.P.A. is run by Andrew Wheeler, a former coal industry lobbyist who was also an aide to Senator James Inhofe, the biggest global warming denier in the history of the U.S. Congress. 
Not much to hope for there. How the hell do you get these people to focus on the environment, even if it's just for flood-prevention purposes? Maybe North Carolina could declare the entire state a Donald Trump golf course. 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion) , and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter . 
Nicholas Kristof is on book leave. 
Copyright New York Times Company Sep 20, 2018 
Subject 	Agriculture; 
Hurricanes; 
Flood insurance; 

Farms; 

Flood damage; 

Global warming; 
Hogs; 
Storm damage; 

Environmental protection; 
Climate change; 
Coasts 


Location 	United States--US; North Carolina 
People 	Trump, Donald J; Wheeler, Andrew; Inhofe, James M; Long, Brock; Pruitt, Scott 
Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Defense Fund 

NAICS: 541720, 813312; 


Name: Federal Emergency Management Agency NAICS: 922190; 
Name: Department of Agriculture NAICS: 926140; 
Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA NAICS: 924110 
URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/09/19/opinion/north-carolina-flooding-trump-lake-norman.html 
Title 	Of Time, Tides And Trump: [Op-Ed] 
Author 	Collins, Gail 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.23 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Sep 20, 2018 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  2109085640  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2109085640?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Sep 20, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-19  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 60 of 236 


Ice Yields Telling Bits Of History: [Science Desk] 
Hoag, Hannah.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]18 Sep 2018: D.1. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Ice+Yields+Telling+Bits+Of+History%3A+%5BScience+Desk%5D&title=New+Yo 09-18&volume=&issue=&spage=D.1&au=Hoag%2C+Hannah&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
As plague swept through Europe in the mid-1300s, wiping out more than a third of the region's population, a glacier in the Alps was recording the upheaval of medieval society. 
While tens of millions of people were dying, pollen from the plants, trees and crops growing in Western Europe were being swept up by the winds and carried toward the Alps. 
They became trapped in snowflakes and fell onto the region's highest mountain, the Monte Rosa massif. Over time, the snow flattened into ever-growing layers of ice, storing a blow-by-blow record of regional environmental change. 
Centuries later, the crop pollens trapped in the ice reveal the collapse of agriculture associated with the pandemic, as bad weather led to poor harvests and fields lay fallow because there was no one left to work them. 
For more than 50 years, scientists have drilled ice cores in the Arctic and Antarctica to reconstruct uninterrupted records of climate change over hundreds of thousands of years. But these glaciers can be difficult to get to and they are far from where most people on Earth live. 
Mid- to low-latitude glaciers, on the other hand, tend to be more accessible and lie at the heart of thousands of years of human activity. The Colle Gnifetti glacier, sitting near the Swiss-Italian border, and with a central location on the continent, has put it on a crash course with Europe's dust for roughly 10,000 years. 
Sandra Brügger, a climate scientist at the Institute of Plant Sciences and the Oeschger Centre for Climate Change Research at the University of Bern, developed a technique to study the pollen, fungal spores, charcoal and soot locked in an ice core drilled from this Swiss glacier. She is aiming to disentangle the ways extreme weather, innovation, crop failures and pollution have shaped Europe since 1050, when Macbeth ruled Scotland. 
Pollen levels rise and fall during the century, but their most pronounced peaks and valleys coincide with notable events. Europe suffered through a spate of calamities during the 14th century. Before the Black Death, there was the Great European Famine. Historical accounts tell of the relentless rains that spoiled back-to-back harvests in parts of Europe from 1315 through 1317, and may have helped bolster the plague's grip. 
Ms. Brügger tracked the cereal and hemp pollen over time, noting their rise and fall. In the early 1300s, these crop pollen levels drop precipitously. "People were starving and there wasn't much agricultural activity anymore," Ms. Brügger said. 
The Black Death took greater hold of Europe from 1347 to 1351, killing 75 million people, and the pollens vanished as agriculture came to a halt. "There's just nothing for five to 10 years," she said. Then, as villages recovered, the pollen levels rebound. 
The ice core reveals more than Europe's 14th century agricultural crises. It chronicles the expansion of pastureland, the increasing globalization of the economy, the onset of industrialization and the occurrence of extensive wildfires through the ages. The results, presented at the Polar 2018 meeting in Switzerland in June, may be the first continuous study of pollen and fungal spores in a European ice core to be captured at intervals of once every decade. 
Few people have conducted detailed studies of pollen in ice cores before, said Raymond Bradley, a geoscientist at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, and an expert in using lake-bed sediment cores to reconstruct past climates. "Most ice cores are polar and they are a long way from major vegetation regimes. Those studies that were done were pretty boring, they didn't show much," he said. 
In the fall of 2015, a six-person crew flew by helicopter from Zermatt, Switzerland, to the saddle of the Colle Gnifetti glacier. They carried with them a ton of equipment, including tents, cookstoves, food and a solar-powered drill. 
"It's a bit risky," said Margit Schwikowski, an atmospheric chemist at the Paul Scherrer Institute and the Oeschger Centre, who is leading the study of the ice core. "You're at 4,500 meters and you have the risk of high-altitude sickness. You don't have time to acclimatize." 
For four days, the drill bored into the ice -- and back in time -- until it hit bedrock. The team flew home with two ice cores, each spanning the entire thickness of the glacier and covering 10,000 years. The ice is more compressed near the bottom of the core, so the top 65 meters of the core contain data from 1050 until 2015, with the remaining 9,000 years crammed into 50 meters of ice. 
Back in the lab, Dr. Schwikowski and her colleagues dated the different sections of the ice core using water, lead and carbon isotopes, and by identifying "dating horizons" such as well-known volcanic eruptions, Saharan dust transport and nuclear weapons tests. Once the timeline was in place, Ms. Brügger began tracking pollen, spores and soot in the samples using a light microscope. In all, she counted more than 40,000 pollen grains in the ice core. 
Grass pollens were abundant in the segments that corresponded to the years 1100 to 1200. During the Medieval Warm Period, temperatures in Europe and the nearby North Atlantic were as warm or warmer than they are now, and crops and forests flourished. The spike in grass pollens corresponded to the expansion of open landscapes, a transition from forests to pastures. She also found the highest levels of a spore from a fungus called Sporormiella that grows only on dung. 
"It's a sign that it's not only an open landscape, but that we also have a lot of cattle," she said. 
[ Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter. ] 
The record becomes more complex in 1750, which marks the expansion of the European economy and the start of the Industrial Revolution. 
Historical records tell us that Columbus introduced maize to Europe in 1493, but maize pollen doesn't show up in the ice core until the mid-1700s, a sign that its large-scale regional production didn't take off immediately. It was also around this time that European society started to become more industrial and urban. This is mirrored in the ice core with the first traces of small spherical carbon particles, evidence of a transition from wood to coal burning in Central Europe. 
Although poets, landowners, chroniclers and others noted these historical events, manual record-taking can be imperfect and limited in geography, and they don't quantify their scale over the whole region. Coupling ice-core data with historical records can yield new insights, said Alexander More, historian and climate scientist at Harvard University and the Climate Change Institute at the University of Maine in Orono. "The combination provides a level of insight that is just not matched by either type on their own," he said. 
Many scientists, including Dr. Schwikowski, are concerned about the fate of these glaciers under climate change. Some glaciers are beginning to melt as temperatures rise. Meltwater from the upper layers of the glacier trickle through the airspaces between the snow granules, smearing the chemical signals and making the core unusable. Colle Gnifetti has, thus far, been spared, because of its high altitude. 
"It is becoming more and more difficult to find a glacier that is not melting and that can still be used for research," said Dr. Schwikowski. "The object for our research is melting away." 

Photograph 
Margit Schwikowski with an ice core on the Colle Gnifetti glacier. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SCHERRER INSTITUTE) (D1); A depiction of the Black Death in Basel, Switzerland, in 1349. Scientists measuring pollen in Swiss ice found agricultural activity ceased for a number of years as the plague gripped Europe. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HULTON ARCHIVE/GETTY IMAGES) (D3) Copyright New York Times Company Sep 18, 2018 
Subject 	Agriculture; 
Scientists; 
Glaciers; 
Corn; 

Archives & records; 
14th century; 

Climate change; 
Ice; 

Pollen 


Location 	Central Europe; Western Europe; Switzerland; Arctic region; Massachusetts; Monte Rosa; 

Scotland; Antarctica; Alps; Europe 


Company / organization 	Name: Harvard University 

NAICS: 611310; 

Name: Facebook Inc NAICS: 518210, 519130; 
Name: University of Maine NAICS: 611310 
URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/09/17/science/icecore-europe-pollen.html 
Title 	Ice Yields Telling Bits Of History: [Science Desk] 
Author 	Hoag, Hannah 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	D.1 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Sep 18, 2018 
Section 	D 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2108074221  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2108074221?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Sep 18, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-19  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 61 of 236 


Nature Roars. Washington Ignores.: [Editorial] 
New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]17 Sep 2018: A.20. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Nature+Roars.+Washington+Ignores.%3A+%5BEditorial%5D&title=New+Yor 09-17&volume=&issue=&spage=A.20&au=&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
As if this past summer of merciless heat waves, droughts and megafires were not warning enough, in the past several days the elements sounded another alarm about the state of a world made warmer by the burning of fossil fuels. It came in the form of a one-two punch of wind and rainfall from Hurricane Florence, which like Hurricane Harvey a year ago, has derived much of its wallop from unusually warm ocean waters and stalled weather systems linked to climate change. "Supercharged" is the word one prominent climate scientist, Michael Mann, used to describe Florence, echoing the findings of the federal Global Change report in 2014 that, along with a rise in other extreme weather events, "hurricane intensity and rainfall are projected to increase as the climate continues to warm." 
To no one's surprise, this linkage went unacknowledged in President Trump's Washington. Quite the contrary. On Tuesday, in a further retreat from President Barack Obama's ambitious promises to reduce America's emissions of the greenhouse gases deemed largely responsible for global warming, the Environmental Protection Agency proposed weakening rules aimed at reducing leaks of methane from oil and gas operations. Methane, a principal component of natural gas, is a short-lived but potent greenhouse gas that represents about 9 percent of this country's total greenhouse gas emissions; one-third of it comes from oil and gas operations. 
Though the changes seem small -- reducing the frequency of inspections and fixes to wells and pipelines, for instance -- they may well presage an administration decision to get out of the business of regulating methane altogether. (The Interior Department, in a companion move, is soon expected to release its own proposal to roll back Obama-era rules regulating the venting and flaring of methane from drilling operations on the millions of acres under its control.) 
The change in the methane rule is just plain dumb. The savings to industry would be trivial, $75 million a year by the Environmental Protection Agency's estimates, a rounding error for the powerful oil industry. The industry could in fact end up a loser, since captured methane can be sold at a profit. Moreover, leaking methane undercuts the industry's claim that natural gas can be a bridge fuel to a cleaner energy future. Though the burning of natural gas emits only about half the carbon dioxide of coal, the leak rate -- as high as 2.3 percent, according to studies organized by the Environmental Defense Fund -- erodes much of that advantage. 
Finally, and most sadly, the change pretty much completes the demolition job on Mr. Obama's climate strategy: the rollback of automobile fuel efficiency standards announced in August; the planned repeal, also announced last month, of Mr. Obama's Clean Power Plan aimed at reducing emissions from coal-fired power plants; and now the methane pullback. These three programs, plus an effort to regulate climate-forcing gases used in refrigerants, formed the basis for Mr. Obama's pledge at the 2015 climate summit in Paris to reduce America's greenhouse gas output by 26 to 28 percent from 2005 levels by 2025. 
To redeem that pledge -- and to reassure the other signatories of the Paris agreement that much of America still cares about climate change -- was the purpose of the Global Climate Action Summit, an extraordinary gathering last week of 4,000 or so climate advocates, foreign dignitaries, investors and state and local officials. The meeting, co-hosted by Gov. Jerry Brown of California and Michael Bloomberg, the former New York mayor, was a bright spot in a week dominated by atmospheric fury in the Carolinas and political fecklessness in Washington. 
Unlike the Paris summit, the meeting had no power to set goals or to legally commit anyone to do anything to reduce emissions. What it did have was messaging power. And the message was one of defiance as well as concern. 
According to a report prepared for the conference, the states, cities and businesses that have joined the cause -- what Mr. Brown and Mr. Bloomberg call the "coalition of the willing" -- now represent over half the population of the United States, over half the American economy and more than a third of its nationwide greenhouse gas emissions. Thanks partly to their efforts (plus, of course, market forces, not least the declining cost of renewable energy sources and the switch in the power sector from coal generation to natural gas), the United States is almost halfway to meeting Mr. Obama's Paris pledge. Simply honoring existing commitments and policies at the state and local level will get the country two-thirds of the way there. 
The tough part is the rest of the journey, and to that end, the report offers strategies that it believes state and local governments can undertake without any help from Mr. Trump. Most are familiar: tougher ordinances to encourage more energy-efficient buildings, stronger state mandates for renewable energy sources like wind and solar power, more rapid deployment of electric vehicles (as California requires) and efforts to begin phasing out the super-polluting compounds used in commercial and residential cooling systems. And, as if in direct rebuke to Mr. Trump, the group called for new and tougher state and local regulations to stop methane leaks from oil and gas wells and municipal distribution systems. 
Uniting these leaders is a belief that human ingenuity can lead us out of a predicament that humans have helped create and a faith in collective action that is almost impossible to find on the Potomac. 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion) . 
Credit: THE EDITORIAL BOARD 
Illustration 
DRAWING (DRAWING BY KIM RYU) 
Copyright New York Times Company Sep 17, 2018 

Subject  Emissions; Environmental regulations; Methane; Energy resources; Environmental policy; Greenhouse effect; Climate change; Industrial plant emissions; Natural gas industry; Editorials; Hurricanes; Greenhouse gases; Petroleum industry; Power; Regulatory reform; Storms; Global warming; Coal-fired power plants; Alternative energy sources; Environmental protection; Paris Agreement; Rain  
Location  United States--US  
People  Trump, Donald J; Obama, Barack; Bloomberg, Michael  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 924110;  
Name: NAICS:  Environmental Defense Fund 541720, 813312  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/09/16/opinion/environment/climate-trump-hurricanes-methane.html  
Title  Nature Roars. Washington Ignores.: [Editorial]  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.20  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Sep 17, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Editorial  

ProQuest document ID  2104931921  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2104931921?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Sep 17, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-19  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 62 of 236 


In Path of Wind and Surging Water Await an Array of Toxic Hazards: [National Desk] 
Pierre-Louis, Kendra; Popovich, Nadja; Tabuchi, Hiroko.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]15 Sep 2018: A.11. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=In+Path+of+Wind+and+Surging+Water+Await+an+Array+of+Toxic+Hazards%3 09-15&volume=&issue=&spage=A.11&au=Pierre­Louis%2C+Kendra%3BPopovich%2C+Nadja%3BTabuchi%2C+Hiroko&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
While people can move out of harm's way, their structures remain behind to face the full force of a storm like Florence. 
In the Carolinas this means not only homes, schools and towns but ponds of coal ash, Superfund sites, chemical plants -- and thousands of industrial hog farms with lagoons 
filled with pig waste. 
Here is where the danger lies, and why: 
PIG FARMS The storm was "hurtling toward the center of animal agriculture in the state of North Carolina," said Will Hendrick, an attorney with the environmental nonprofit 

Waterkeeper Alliance. 

In Florence's path are the two counties, Duplin and Sampson, with the highest concentration of pork production in a state that produces a lot of pork. North Carolina has 9.7 
million pigs, producing almost 10 billion gallons of manure annually. The only state with a bigger pork business is Iowa. 
"It's 500 times the waste produced by the entire population of Washington D.C.," said Alexis Andiman, an associate attorney with EarthJustice, a nonprofit environmental law 

firm that has sued the state over its handling of animal waste. 

The material is collected in open pits called lagoons. The system's design is based on storm surge data from the 1960s, before the effects of climate change were as well 
understood. 
In 2016, Hurricane Matthew swamped 14 lagoons in the state. And in 1999, the liquid that escaped when Hurricane Floyd flooded dozens of lagoons wound up in waterways 

where it killed fish and caused algae blooms, which imperil aquatic life. 

Andy Curliss, the chief executive of the North Carolina Pork Council, said that the industry had adjusted over the years. "A lot of the farms that flooded in Floyd were bought out 
and closed, and that's why you didn't see the same impact in Matthew," he said. 
COAL ASH PONDS Coal ash is the dusty residue that remains after power plants burn coal to generate electricity. It contains heavy metals like arsenic, lead, mercury and 

selenium, which are linked to respiratory illnesses and cancer. 

Energy companies maintain that the way they store coal ash, in earthen pits mixed with water, is safe. Still, there is concern that Hurricane Florence could displace it from the 
ponds. 
There are two dangers, according to Avner Vengosh, a professor of Earth and Ocean Sciences at Duke University. "One is the overflowing of coal ash ponds causing water 

contamination in lakes and rivers," he said. "The other potential risk is the escape of the ash itself." 
That happened In 2008 in Kingston, Tenn., when heavy rains led to the breach of a pond, releasing 1.1 billion gallons of coal ash. It is the largest such spill on record. 
Duke Energy, North Carolina's largest utility, said its measures would keep the coal ash in the ponds. At one site, a pond has been partly covered to help keep water out. 
Anne McGovern, a Duke Energy spokeswoman, said the company would also continuously monitor the situation. "We actually have drones available to us to help do those 

inspections," she said. 

SUPERFUND SITES The Carolinas are home to more than 70 high-priority Superfund hazardous-waste sites, including a former smelting plant in North Charleston near the coast 
that is contaminated with arsenic, antimony and other substances linked to health problems including cancer. 
The Environmental Protection Agency has said it is monitoring at least 11 Superfund sites in the two states. The agency came under fire last year after hurricanes Harvey and 

Maria inundated Superfund sites in Houston and Puerto Rico. 

"Industrial sites have historically been near water," said Prof. Thomas Burke, associate dean at the Johns Hopkins School of Public Health, who studied chemical exposures after 
Hurricane Katrina and other storms. "That makes them definitely vulnerable," he said. "In New Orleans, they caused a toxic gumbo." 
Though cleanup is under way at the Carolina sites, and contaminants like arsenic and lead are already capped to keep them in place, flooding still poses a threat. "With 

extraordinary surges and inundation of water, you really have to worry about the integrity of these things," Professor Burke said. 

CHEMICAL SITES North and South Carolina are home to more than one thousand sites where toxic chemicals are used or stored, according to a database maintained by the 
E.P.A. 
The region's paper mills, for example, use various solvents to treat the lumber. Across the country, 2,500 chemical sites lie in flood-prone areas, a New York Times analysis found this year. 
"With flooding, will there be damage to storage tanks? These are things we have to watch out for," said Elena Craft, a senior health scientist at the Environmental Defense Fund. "We're talking PCBs, dioxins, the worst of the worst," she said, referring to chemicals known to be harmful to human health. 
Professor Burke said flooding could turn common neighborhood businesses, like gasoline stations or dry cleaning shops, into public health threats. Sewage spills are another concern. "Even a run-of-the-mill warehouse that happens to have a huge inventory of pesticides -- if that gets into the water, there's exposure," he said. 
AuthorAffiliation 
Tiffany Hsu contributed to this report. 
Map 
Hurricane Florence (Sources: North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality, South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control, U.S. Energy Information Administration via Frontier Group, Environmental Protection Agency) Copyright New York Times Company Sep 15, 2018 
Subject 	Floods; 

Environmental management; 
Hogs; 
Fly ash; 

Energy industry; 

Storms; 
Public health; 
Chemical industry; 
Environmental protection; 
Arsenic; 
Coal 


Location 	South Carolina; Puerto Rico; New York; United States--US; Washington DC; North Carolina; 

Iowa 


Company / organization 	Name: Department of Health & Environmental Control-South Carolina 

NAICS: 924110; 

Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 

NAICS: 924110; 

Name: Duke University 

NAICS: 611310; 

Name: Energy Information Administration 

NAICS: 926130; 

Name: Environmental Defense Fund 

NAICS: 541720, 813312; 


Name: New York Times Co 

NAICS: 511110, 511120, 515112, 515120; 


Name: Department of Environmental Quality-North Carolina 

NAICS: 924110; 

Name: Duke Energy Corp 

NAICS: 221122 


Title 	In Path of Wind and Surging Water Await an Array of Toxic Hazards: [National Desk] 
Author 	Pierre-Louis, Kendra; Popovich, Nadja; Tabuchi, Hiroko 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.11 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date  Sep 15, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2104062311  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2104062311?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Sep 15, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-19  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 63 of 236 



'Anonymous' Is Hiding in Plain Sight: [Op-Ed] 
Friedman, Thomas L.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]12 Sep 2018: A.25. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=%27Anonymous%27+Is+Hiding+in+Plain+Sight%3A+%5BOp­Ed%5D&title=New+York+Times&issn=03624331&date=2018-09­12&volume=&issue=&spage=A.25&au=Friedman%2C+Thomas+L&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
More and more, I wonder if the disgruntled senior Trump administration official who wrote the anonymous Op-Ed in The Times was actually representing a group -- like a "Murder on the Orient Express" plotline where every senior Trump adviser was in on it. Why? Because the article so perfectly captured the devil's bargain they've all struck with this president: Donald Trump is amoral, dishonest and disturbed, a man totally unfit to be president, but, as the anonymous author self-servingly wrote, "There are bright spots that the near-ceaseless negative coverage of the administration fails to capture: effective deregulation, historic tax reform, a more robust military and more." 
That's the anonymous-G.O.P. credo today: We know Trump is a jerk, but you've gotta love the good stuff -- you've got to admit that his tax cuts, deregulation, destruction of Obamacare and military buildup have fueled so much growth, defense spending and record stock market highs that we're wealthier and more secure as a country, even if Trump is nuts. So our consciences are clear. 
This view is not without foundation. Economic growth and employment have clearly been on a tear since Trump took office. I'm glad about that. 
But what if Trump is actually heating up our economy by burning all the furniture in the house? It's going to be nice and toasty for us -- at least for a while -- but where will our kids sleep? 
What if Trump's tax cuts, deregulation, scrapping of Obamacare without any alternative and military spending surge were actually ill-thought-through, short-term-focused initiatives that all ignored expert opinion -- because they mostly emerged from off-the-cuff remarks at Trump pep rallies -- and collectively amount to a sugar high that not only will be unsustainable but will leave our economy far more vulnerable in the long term? 
Let's take that view for a spin: I favor corporate tax cuts -- big ones. But I would have offset them with a carbon tax, a tax on sugar and a small financial transaction tax. That way, we'd unleash the energy of our corporations while mitigating climate change, spurring the next great global industry -- clean power -- curbing childhood asthma and diabetes and not adding to our national debt, thereby making ourselves more resilient as a country. 
When Trump simultaneously cuts corporate taxes and withdraws America from the Paris climate accord, tries to revive the coal industry by lowering pollution standards and weakens fuel economy standards for U.S.-made cars and trucks, he is vastly adding to the financial debts and carbon debts that will burden our children. 
And he is doing this despite many economists warning that increasing the deficit when your economy is already growing nicely is really, really reckless -- because you may need that money to stimulate your way out of the next recession. 
And he is doing this at a time when virtually every climate scientist has warned that global-warming-driven extreme weather events -- droughts, floods and wildfires -- are sharply on the rise and we are staring through the last window of time to mitigate climate change so that we can manage the impacts that are already unavoidable and avoid the impacts that will be terrifyingly unmanageable. 
In June, The Associated Press reported on the latest International Monetary Fund survey of the U.S. economy, which concluded that as a result of Trump's "tax cuts and expected increases in defense and domestic programs, the federal budget deficit as a percentage of the total economy will exceed 4.5 percent of G.D.P. by next year -- nearly double what it was just three years ago." Such a "big boost ... has not been seen in the United States since President Lyndon Johnson in the late 1960s boosted spending on the Vietnam War at the same time it was adopting Johnson's Great Society programs." 
Faced with so much debt, which the country will not be able to grow out of, The A.P. story continued, paraphrasing the I.M.F. report, the U.S. "may need to take politically painful steps," such as cutting Social Security benefits and imposing higher taxes on consumers. (We'll probably also have to limit spending on new roads, bridges and research.) 
You might want to let your kids know that. 
You might also want to share with your kids the recent study from a group of Australian climate scientists who modeled the damage to different economies if we don't work together to achieve the Paris climate accord's goal of limiting the increase in global average temperature by 2100 to less than two degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. 
The rise in sea level will require massive movements of people and cities, and the soaring heat levels will cause losses in agricultural productivity and declines in human health across the globe. As a result, the study found, the economic impacts of ignoring the Paris limits will be "comparable to the Great Depression of the 1930s, with its global fall in 
G.D.P. of 15 percent, except these will occur year after year, with no way for effective redress. ... Many governments around the globe won't be able to cope and will, to put it simply, fail." 
There were responsible ways to cut taxes on things we want more of -- like corporate investment -- while boosting them on things we want less of -- like carbon, reckless financial speculation and diabetes -- that could have stimulated jobs and growth but also left us more financially and environmentally resilient. But both Trump and the anonymous-G.O.P. crowd rejected them, just as they rejected smart improvements to Obamacare, preferring a total scrapping. 
So when Republicans say they're disgusted by Trump's ignorance and indecency but love his "deregulations" and "tax reforms" -- those very sanitized words -- this is what they love: taking huge fiscal and environmental risks -- effectively throwing away our bumpers and spare tires that we may soon need to drive through the next financial or climate storm -- for a short-term economic and political high. 
How different is that from Trump's indecency? Let's be clear, Trump cheated on his wife, but his party's now cheating on their kids. You tell me who's worse. 
And don't get me started on the recently signed $716 billion defense budget for the 2019 fiscal year -- a spending hike so dramatic, as defense analyst Lawrence Korb pointed out, that it means since Trump took office under two years ago, "the defense budget will have grown by $133 billion, or 23 percent." And there's no major war going on. 
Here again, the anonymous-Republicans equate a bigger defense budget and more weapons with strategy and strength. Thus, by definition, if Trump increased defense spending, he did something right. Did I miss the series of congressional hearings with independent military experts that addressed the question: What are the new (and old) threats we're facing today, and how will these new and vastly expensive weapons systems enable us to better address them? 
Some of the smartest military analysts I know think that investing in so many big, new weapons systems is the equivalent of taking sledgehammers to droplets of quicksilver, considering that so many enemies we face today are super-empowered individuals or nations that have opted to hurt us with cheap cyberweapons and cheap but massive swarming tactics. 
Did any of these Republican lawmakers take note of the Iranian naval exercise in the gulf in August? The Iranians took some big old ships from the shah's days and said "you will be the American Navy." And then they used swarming tactics to ravage those big ships -- deploying scores of very small, cheap speedboats and kamikaze coastal craft, armed with light missiles and rocket-propelled grenades. 
John Arquilla, a senior strategist at the Naval Postgraduate School, likes to say that in today's networked world -- where ISIS was buying drones from online shopping sites and turning them into aerial grenade launchers -- "many and small can beat few and large." 
The Chinese, he notes, "are building sea power without a traditional navy," focusing on building hundreds of cheap, small missile and torpedo boats to take on our multibillion­dollar aircraft carriers and flotillas. Moreover, Arquilla notes, "when you have such a massive defense budget, you don't have to ask yourself hard questions" such as: What the hell are we still doing in Afghanistan after 17 years of "failing to reroute the currents of history and culture there and make the place into a democracy by armed force?" 
In sum, I believe in a robust military and U.S. global engagement. But this does not automatically translate into support for a radically higher defense budget. 
So the next time anonymous-G.O.P. lawmakers tell you that while Trump is a moral wreck -- and they are saving the nation from his wretchedness -- they love his tax cuts, deregulation and military budget, ask them to describe the strategic vision behind that defense budget. Ask them if they really are unbothered by massively increasing the deficit at a time when our economy was already growing -- just when we should be saving cash to soften our next recession. Ask them if they really think it is smart to roll back our auto mileage standards, when the last time we did that the more fuel-efficient Japanese and Korean auto industries nearly killed Detroit. 
Lastly, ask them if they have kids -- and how they think all these Trumpian policies that they like, even if they don't like Trump, will serve the next generation. 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion) , and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter . 
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 
Copyright New York Times Company Sep 12, 2018 
Subject 	Diabetes; 

Recessions; 

National debt; 

Budget deficits; 
Deregulation; 
Presidency; 
Carbon; 
Tax cuts; 

Political leadership; 
Taxes; 

Anonymity; 

Global warming; 
Energy efficiency; 
Presidents; 
Essays; 

Economic conditions; 

Climate change 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Trump, Donald J 
Company / organization 	Name: New York Times Co 

NAICS: 511110, 511120, 515112, 515120; 


Name: Republican Party NAICS: 813940 
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/09/11/opinion/anonymous-op-ed-republican-party-trump.html  
Title  'Anonymous' Is Hiding in Plain Sight: [Op-Ed]  
Author  Friedman, Thomas L  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.25  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Sep 12, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  2102203763  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2102203763?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Sep 12, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-19  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 64 of 236 


Local Leaders Defied Trump on Climate Change. Can They Deliver?: [National Desk] 
Plumer, Brad.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]12 Sep 2018: A.18. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Local+Leaders+Defied+Trump+on+Climate+Change.+Can+They+Deliver%3F% 09-12&volume=&issue=&spage=A.18&au=Plumer%2C+Brad&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd: , our email newsletter. 
Hours after President Trump announced last year that the United States would exit the Paris climate deal, a broad group of governors, mayors and business executives declared 
that they would uphold the agreement anyway and continue tackling global warming on their own. 
It was a striking move for a coalition of local leaders: Making a case to the rest of the world that they, and not the president, spoke for the nation on climate policy. 
To date, however, that groundswell hasn't been enough to counteract the effects of the Trump administration's retreat on climate policy. Now, as many of those same local 

leaders and executives gather for a high-level conference in San Francisco this week, the group they created finds itself at a critical juncture, the moment when it shows 

whether or not it can rise to the task. 
"Yeah, there's pressure," said Gov. Jerry Brown of California, one of the most visible faces of the movement, known as "We Are Still In." State and local leaders "are carrying the 
flag while the big powers, the national guys, are rather somnolent." 

The gathering in San Francisco, which is spearheaded by Governor Brown, will bring leaders and civil society groups from around the world to discuss ways that states, cities 

and businesses can work together to reduce their emissions. 
The stakes are high. So far, 2018 is on track to be the fourth-hottest year on record worldwide. Deadly heat waves scorched all corners of the globe this summer and huge 
wildfires set California ablaze. Scientists are warning that countries have delayed so long in cutting emissions that many long-predicted disruptions from global warming are now 
unavoidable. 

Against that backdrop, the Trump administration has been pushing to roll back many of the most prominent federal climate policies. Overseas, most national governments are 

falling far short of their promises to curb greenhouse gas emissions. 
"We're seeing signs of increasing apathy worldwide," said Paul Bledsoe, a White House climate adviser under former President Bill Clinton. "And a lot of people are hoping that 
what's happening in places like California could be the antidote." 

A big test of that antidote will be whether America's states, cities and companies put forward meaningful new steps to cut emissions -- and whether that, in turn, helps to 

persuade local leaders in other countries to ratchet up their own efforts on climate change. 
"There's a real push to make sure that this We Are Still In movement becomes something more than just a symbolic exercise," said Gwynne Taraska, a senior fellow at Climate 
Advisers, a consulting firm. "This is an opportunity for them to cement their diplomatic relevance." 

'A much heavier lift' ahead 
Until now, local action on climate change in the United States has largely been led by a handful of blue states like California, the world's fifth-largest economy. 
On Monday, Governor Brown signed a bill that would require California's utilities to get 100 percent of their electricity from zero-carbon sources by 2045. He has also set a goal 

of putting 5 million electric cars on the road by 2030 while dedicating $2.5 billion to vehicle rebates and charging infrastructure. 
Other states -- like Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, Oregon and Washington -- are racing to catch up. 
Signs of climate action are sprouting at the municipal level, too. More than 70 cities including Atlanta, Denver and Orlando have signed onto a goal of buying enough renewable 

power to offset all of their electricity consumption, though many mayors are now pondering how to pull that off. 

And dozens of Fortune 500 companies including Google, Apple and Wal-Mart have voluntarily invested billions of dollars into building new wind and solar farms to power their 
operations. 
Despite the flurry of state actions, though, the United States is still falling far short of its Paris Agreement pledges. A study in June by the research firm Rhodium Group 

estimated that the country was on pace to get only about halfway to former President Barack Obama's promise under the pact to cut America's emissions at least 26 percent below 2005 levels by 2025. 
One big reason for that: While many states have found it relatively painless to clean up their electric grids, swapping out coal for cleaner and cheaper natural gas and renewables, power plants are responsible for only about one-third of America's emissions. 
That still leaves a lot of emissions, like those from cars and trucks, farming, and industrial sectors like cement and steel. These sources are much harder to decarbonize and most states haven't made much headway. 
"These are sectors that require huge technological and behavioral changes," said Kate Larsen, a co-author of the Rhodium Group report. "It's a much heavier lift." 
At the San Francisco talks, known as the Global Climate Action Summit, state and city officials are expected to share ideas and unveil fresh policies for tackling some of these long-neglected sectors and push for deeper cuts. Yet even then, they will have to confront another obstacle: Persuading their peers elsewhere in the country to join them. 
Only 16 states and Puerto Rico have actually promised to uphold the Paris agreement. Most of those states are led by Democrats, and efforts to persuade Republican-led states like Ohio or Texas to join have been largely unsuccessful. 
"That has been one of the great struggles," said Jay Inslee, the Democratic governor of Washington and a co-chairman of the alliance. "But I can tell you that I am confident that the alliance will grow after this next election cycle." 
That assumes, though, that states like Florida, New Mexico or Maine will see a change in party control. 
A 'new world' in foreign policy 
Governor Brown stressed that the San Francisco conference was meant to be a global summit, and he is leading it with foreign representatives like Xie Zhenhua, China's chief climate negotiator, and Anand Mahindra, a prominent Indian industrialist. 
In effect, the leaders of We Are Still In are seeking to conduct their own version of foreign policy on climate change -- forging partnerships with other local governments in countries like China to address global warming and urging leaders abroad to do more -- at a time when the Trump administration has disengaged on the issue. 
"It's a new world," Governor Inslee said. "We have the ability to work with the United Kingdom, as we have, with British Columbia, with Mexico, which we do. We can share best practices, we can look for investment opportunities. We are just not hampered by the Trump administration at all." 
Still, it remains to be seen whether a group of local leaders can provide fresh momentum for global climate efforts, which have shown signs of stalling. The governing party in Australia recently ousted the country's prime minister after he proposed a modest climate policy. In Europe and China, emissions have been rising over the past year. 
The head of the United Nations, António Guterres, warned this week that the world was approaching a dangerous tipping point after which runaway climate change might be inevitable. 
"Look, we're at the base camp of Mt. Everest," Governor Brown said. "This summit is meant to put climate change on the agenda and keep pushing it higher and higher on the list until finally the whole world is fully engaged. And I'll tell you one thing, it's a hell of a lot better than doing nothing." 
For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. 

Photograph 
Gov. Jerry Brown of California spearheaded the Global Climate Action Summit this week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICH PEDRONCELLI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) Copyright New York Times Company Sep 12, 2018 
Subject 	Emissions; 

Presidents; 
Environmental policy; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Climate change; 
Foreign policy; 

Global warming; 
Governors; 
Paris Agreement 


Location 	Maine; United Kingdom--UK; New Jersey; Puerto Rico; Australia; Florida; 

San Francisco California; Europe; Atlanta Georgia; Texas; Mexico; New Mexico; 

United States--US; New York; Massachusetts; Ohio; British Columbia Canada; China; 

California; Oregon 


People 	Trump, Donald J; Xie Zhenhua; Inslee, Jay; Obama, Barack; Clinton, Bill 
Company / organization 	Name: Walmart Inc 

NAICS: 452112, 452910, 454111; 


Name: United Nations--UN NAICS: 928120; 
Name: Twitter Inc NAICS: 519130; 
Name: Google Inc NAICS: 334310, 519130 
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/09/11/climate/california-climate-summit.html  
Title  Local Leaders Defied Trump on Climate Change. Can They Deliver?: [National Desk]  
Author  Plumer, Brad  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.18  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Sep 12, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2102203076  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2102203076?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Sep 12, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-19  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 65 of 236 


Climate Crisis Is Near Point Of No Return, U.N. Warns: [Foreign Desk] 
Sengupta, Somini.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]11 Sep 2018: A.6. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Climate+Crisis+Is+Near+Point+Of+No+Return%2C+U.N.+Warns%3A+%5BFore 09-11&volume=&issue=&spage=A.6&au=Sengupta%2C+Somini&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd: , our email newsletter. 
Warning of the risks of "runaway" global warming, the United Nations secretary general, António Guterres, on Monday called on global leaders to rein in climate change faster. 
"If we do not change course by 2020, we risk missing the point where we can avoid runaway climate change," Mr. Guterres said at United Nations headquarters in New York. 
"Climate change is the defining issue of our time, and we are at a defining moment," he said. "Scientists have been telling us for decades. Over and over again. Far too many 

leaders have refused to listen." 

His remarks came with countries around the world far short of meeting the goals they set for themselves under the 2015 Paris accord to reduce the emissions that have warmed 
the planet over the last century. The next round of climate negotiations is scheduled for this year in Poland. 
One of the big tests at those talks, which start Dec. 3 in Katowice, will be whether countries, especially industrialized countries that produce a large share of global emissions, 

will set higher targets for reducing their emissions. 

"The time has come for our leaders to show they care about the people whose fate they hold in their hands," Mr. Guterres said, without taking questions from reporters. "We 
need to rapidly shift away from our dependence on fossil fuels." 
Mr. Guterres's speech came days before a high-level climate meeting in San Francisco, spearheaded by Gov. Jerry Brown of California, meant to demonstrate what businesses 

and local leaders have done to tackle climate change. 

The United Nations chief seems to be taking a page from Mr. Brown's playbook. He, too, is looking beyond national leaders to make a difference. He has invited heads of 
industry and city government leaders to his September 2019 climate change forum in an apparent effort to increase pressure on national governments. 
The Paris Agreement aims to keep temperatures from rising more than 2 degrees Celsius from preindustrial levels in order to avoid what scientists call the most catastrophic 

impacts of climate change. 

But few countries are even close to meeting the targets they set under the Paris pact. And an assessment by the United Nations found that country targets so far would achieve 
only one-third of the global target. 
Mr. Guterres sought to make the case that a shift away from fossil fuels like oil and coal would create jobs and bolster economies. Rebutting critics who argue that such a shift 

would be costly, he called that idea "hogwash." 

He cited the steps private companies are taking to wean themselves away from polluting fossil fuels -- including a hat tip to the insurance company Allianz, which has promised 
to stop insuring coal fired power plants -- though he said such actions are plainly insufficient. 
"These are all important strides," Mr. Guterres said. "But they are not enough. The transition to a cleaner, greener future needs to speed up." 
He warned that governments were not meeting their Paris Agreement commitments and goaded world leaders to step up. 
"What we still lack, even after the Paris Agreement, is leadership and the ambition to do what is needed," he said. 
Mr. Guterres did not mention any countries or any heads of state by name. But looming large over his remarks was the leader of world's most powerful country: President 

Trump, who has dismissed climate science, rolled back environmental regulations and vowed to pull the United States out of the Paris climate accord. For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. 

Photograph 
António Guterres, the United Nations secretary general, urged global leaders "to rapidly shift away from" fossil fuels. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MADOKA IKEGAMI/A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES) Copyright New York Times Company Sep 11, 2018 
Subject  Global warming;  
International;  
Paris Agreement;  
Fossil fuels;  
Leadership;  
Emissions;  
Climate change;  
Industrial plant emissions  
Company / organization  Name: United Nations--UN  
NAICS: 928120  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/09/10/climate/united-nations-climate-change.html  
Title  Climate Crisis Is Near Point Of No Return, U.N. Warns: [Foreign Desk]  
Author  Sengupta, Somini  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.6  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Sep 11, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2101735069  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2101735069?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Sep 11, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-19  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 66 of 236 


White House Set To Weaken Rules Curbing Methane: [National Desk] 
Davenport, Coral.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]11 Sep 2018: A.1. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=White+House+Set+To+Weaken+Rules+Curbing+Methane%3A+%5BNational+D 09-11&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Davenport%2C+Coral&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd: , our email newsletter. 
WASHINGTON -- The Trump administration, taking its third major step this year to roll back federal efforts to fight climate change, is preparing to make it significantly easier for energy companies to release methane into the atmosphere. 
Methane, which is among the most powerful greenhouse gases, routinely leaks from oil and gas wells, and energy companies have long said that the rules requiring them to test for emissions were costly and burdensome. 
The Environmental Protection Agency, perhaps as soon as this week, plans to make public a proposal to weaken an Obama-era requirement that companies monitor and repair methane leaks, according to documents reviewed by The New York Times. In a related move, the Interior Department is also expected in coming days to release its final version of a draft rule, proposed in February, that essentially repeals a restriction on the intentional venting and "flaring," or burning, of methane from drilling operations. 
The new rules follow two regulatory rollbacks this year that, taken together, represent the foundation of the United States' effort to rein in global warming. In July, the E.P.A. proposed weakening a rule on carbon dioxide pollution from vehicle tailpipes. And in August, the agency proposed replacing the rule on carbon dioxide pollution from coal-fired power plants with a weaker one that would allow far more global-warming emissions to flow unchecked from the nation's smokestacks. 
"They're taking them down, one by one," said Janet McCabe, the E.P.A.'s top climate and clean-air regulator in the Obama administration. 
Officials from the E.P.A., the Interior Department and the White House did not respond to emails and telephone calls seeking comment. 
Industry groups praised the expected changes. "It's a neat pair" of proposals on methane, said Kathleen Sgamma, president of the Western Energy Alliance, an association of independent oil and gas companies that is based in Denver. The Obama-era E.P.A. methane rule, she said, "was the definition of red tape. It was a record-keeping nightmare that was technically impossible to execute in the field." 
Ms. Sgamma praised the Trump administration for turning the oil companies' requests into policy, noting that the Obama administration frequently turned proposals from environmental groups into policy. "It all depends on who you trust," she said. "That administration trusted environmentalists. This one trusts industry." 
The regulation of methane, while not as widely discussed as emissions from cars and coal plants, was nonetheless a major component of Mr. Obama's efforts to combat climate change. Methane makes up only about nine percent of greenhouse gases, but it is around 25 times more effective than carbon dioxide in trapping heat in the atmosphere. About one-third of methane pollution is estimated to come from oil and gas operations. 
The forthcoming proposals from the E.P.A. and Interior Department would allow far more methane to leak from oil and gas drilling operations, environmentalists say. "These leaks can pop up any time, anywhere, up and down the oil and gas supply chain," said Matt Watson, a specialist in methane pollution with the Environmental Defense Fund, an advocacy group. "The longer you go in between inspections, the longer leaks will go undetected and unrepaired." 
The proposals exemplify President Trump's policy quest to roll back regulations on businesses, particularly oil, gas and coal companies. While significant aspects of the president's broader agenda -- including immigration and trade policy, and the proposed border wall with Mexico -- remain mired in confusion, and as the administration struggles under the investigation into the presidential campaign's ties with Russia, the E.P.A. and Interior Department have steadily pressed forward with rollbacks of environmental regulations. 
"In other areas of policymaking, like immigration and health care, they appear to have brought into the administration ideologues who don't know a lot about policymaking," said Cecilia Muñoz, who directed the White House Domestic Policy Council in the Obama administration. "But in climate change and energy, they appear to have brought in people who know exactly what they're doing, and know exactly where the levers are." 
The pace of the proposals has not been slowed by the resignation in July of Scott Pruitt, who left the top job at the E.P.A. under a cloud of ethics scandals. Andrew Wheeler, a former coal lobbyist who worked in the E.P.A. under the first President George Bush, is now the agency's acting chief. 
The E.P.A.'s new methane proposal, according to the draft seen by The Times, would loosen a 2016 rule that required oil and gas drillers to perform leak inspections as frequently as every six months on their drilling equipment, and to repair leaks within 30 days. The proposed amendment would lengthen that to once a year in most cases, and to as infrequently as once every two years for low-producing wells. It would also double the amount of time a company could wait before repairing a methane leak from 30 to 60 days. 
It would also double the amount of time required between inspections of the equipment that traps and compresses the natural gas, from once every three months to once every six months. On the Alaskan North Slope, where oil and gas companies contend that harsh weather makes it difficult to conduct inspections, such equipment would only have to be monitored annually. 
In addition, the E.P.A. proposal would let energy companies operating in states that have their own state-level methane standards follow those standards instead of the federal ones. That would include states such as Texas, where the pollution standards have been more lax than federal standards. 
If implemented, the proposal would recoup nearly all the costs to the oil and gas industry that would have been imposed by the Obama-era regulation. The E.P.A. estimated that rule would have cost companies about $530 million by 2025. The E.P.A. estimates that the proposed changes would save the oil and gas industry $484 million by the same year. 
For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. 

Photograph 
One rule change, proposed by the Interior Department, would essentially repeal a restriction on venting and "flaring," or burning, of methane from drilling operations. 
(PHOTOGRAPH BY ORJAN F. ELLINGVAG/CORBIS, VIA GETTY IMAGES) (A13) 
Copyright New York Times Company Sep 11, 2018 

Subject 	Standards; 

Emissions; 

Environmentalists; 
Environmental regulations; 

Methane; 

Presidents; 
Proposals; 

Environmental policy; 
Energy industry; 

Climate change; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Immigration; 
Regulation; 
Greenhouse gases; 
Gas industry; 
Carbon dioxide; 
Regulatory reform; 
Regulatory agencies; 

Coal-fired power plants; 
Environmental protection; 
Natural gas utilities 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Trump, Donald J; Pruitt, Scott; Wheeler, Andrew 
Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 

NAICS: 924110; 

Name: Department of the Interior NAICS: 924120 
URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/09/10/climate/methane-emissions-epa.html 
Title 	White House Set To Weaken Rules Curbing Methane: [National Desk] 
Author 	Davenport, Coral 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.1 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Sep 11, 2018 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2101734284  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2101734284?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Sep 11, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-19  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 67 of 236 


E.P.A. Aims to Revalue Human Health in Its Review of Mercury Rules: [National Desk] 
Davenport, Coral; Friedman, Lisa.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]10 Sep 2018: A.15. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=E.P.A.+Aims+to+Revalue+Human+Health+in+Its+Review+of+Mercury+Rules% 09-10&volume=&issue=&spage=A.15&au=Davenport%2C+Coral%3BFriedman%2C+Lisa&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd: , our email newsletter. 
WASHINGTON -- When writing environmental rules, one of the most important calculations involves weighing the financial costs against any gains in human life and health. The formulas are complex, but the bottom line is that reducing the emphasis on health makes it tougher to justify a rule. 
Last week the Trump administration took a crucial step toward de-emphasizing the life and health benefits in this calculus when the Environmental Protection Agency said it would rethink a major regulation that restricts mercury emissions by coal-burning power plants. 
The 2011 mercury rule -- based on decades of research showing that mercury damages the brain, lungs and fetal health -- is among the costliest but most effective clean-air policies put forth by the Environmental Protection Agency. Utilities estimate they have spent $18 billion installing clean-air technology, and mercury pollution has fallen by nearly 70 percent. 
Modifying the rule could have an impact far beyond any immediate concerns about the release of toxic mercury into the air and water. In fact, the re-evaluation fits into a far-reaching administration strategy to loosen environmental rules affecting countless other industries for years to come by adjusting the factors used to judge the benefits to human health that the rule has brought. 
"This goes way beyond just weakening the mercury rule," said Alan Krupnick, an economist at Resources for the Future, a nonpartisan Washington research organization. "This is part of a change that would give the Trump administration a way to more easily justify loosening many other pollution regulations, such as rules on smog, and rules on climate-change pollution." 
For example, Mr. Krupnick and other experts said, tweaking the formulas could also make it easier for the E.P.A. to justify its separate proposal last month to replace the Clean Power Plan, an Obama-era rule that was designed to cut global-warming emissions from power plants. 
The electric utilities that operate the nation's coal-fired plants, and thus are heavily affected by the mercury rule, are urging the administration to leave the rule alone. They have already spent billions of dollars to become compliant, the utilities say, so changes are of little benefit to them. 
"It's in our rearview mirror, so we want to stick with what we've done," said Shannon Brushe, a spokeswoman for Duke Energy, one of the nation's largest utilities. "We want to be able to plan our investments for the future, but if they change the rules, that becomes difficult." 
The E.P.A. has said it is reviewing whether the rule is "appropriate and necessary." That's legal shorthand, based on a 2015 Supreme Court decision, for assessing whether the costs of compliance outweigh the benefits: The court found that the agency must assess industry's compliance costs in determining whether a regulation is appropriate and necessary, but kept the rule in place. The. E.P.A. under the Trump administration asked a federal appeals court to delay the rule while it decides whether to continue to defend it in court. 
Because of that, according to conservative groups that have welcomed the review, a loosening of the mercury rule would fit into a broader effort to fundamentally change the agency's formulas for its cost-benefit reviews. 
This past June, Scott Pruitt, who was the E.P.A.'s administrator at the time, called for a new way of calculating the costs and benefits of environmental regulations. "Many have complained that the previous administration inflated the benefits and underestimated the costs of its regulations through questionable cost-benefit analysis," he said at the time. Under Andrew L. Wheeler, who became the E.P.A.'s acting administrator when Mr. Pruitt stepped down in July amid scandals, the agency is still considering an overhaul. 
Nicolas Loris, an economist with the Heritage Foundation, a conservative think tank that has championed President Trump's environmental deregulatory agenda, said that rewriting the mercury rule by placing different values on the health costs of mercury pollution could help end what he called the E.P.A.'s "egregious abuse" of the way it measures winners and losers. "This could be part of a broader approach," he said. 
Public health advocates say that the reformulation of the mercury rule, along with efforts to limit the type of scientific studies the E.P.A. will allow to inform its understanding of how pollution affects human health, will weaken the agency's ability to write new pollution standards in the future. "All of this is leading up to a real sea change in the way this agency, which is supposed to be a public health and environment agency, thinks about the value of reducing air pollution from coal plants," said Ann Weeks, senior counsel for the Clean Air Task Force, an environmental group. 
The mercury rule, she said, "is where the rubber hits the road." 
John Konkus, a spokesman for the E.P.A., said that the agency "knows these issues are of importance to the regulated community and the public at large and is committed to a thoughtful and transparent regulatory process in addressing them." 
The calculations that the E.P.A. conducts for every major new air or water regulation lie at the philosophical heart of the agency's work. And its process for that analysis has long been in industry's cross hairs. 
That's because the agency has long counted not just the direct health benefits of pulling a certain pollutant out of the atmosphere, but also what are called the "co-benefits" that occur when, as a result, other toxins are also reduced. 
For example, in the case of the mercury rule, the Obama administration found between $4 million to $6 million in health benefits directly from curbing mercury. But it further justified the regulation by citing an additional $80 billion in health benefits a year by, among other things, preventing as many as 11,000 premature deaths. Those savings come from a reduction in particulate matter linked to heart and lung disease that also occurs when cutting mercury emissions. 
Mr. Konkus, the E.P.A. spokesman, said last week, "One of a number of issues E.P.A. is assessing in the context of the appropriate and necessary analysis is whether and how to account for co-benefits." 
A powerful array of business groups including the United States Chamber of Commerce, the National Association of Home Builders and leaders in the coal industry say the E.P.A. has for too long ignored or downplayed in its formulas the costs of regulations to their businesses. 
One of the fiercest critics is Robert E. Murray, the C.E.O. of Murray Energy Corp., who has donated to Mr. Trump's inauguration fund, and has served as a chief counselor to the president on his efforts to revive the nation's flagging coal industry. Mr. Murray helped underwrite lawsuits that Republican attorneys general and industry groups brought against the mercury rule. He cited its repeal as one of his top priorities in letters last year to cabinet heads. 
Mr. Murray is also a former lobbying client of Mr. Wheeler, the current acting administrator of the E.P.A. who joined the agency after spending nearly a decade as the coal executive's top attorney. 
Mr. Konkus said that Mr. Wheeler did not work on the mercury issue when he served a lobbyist for Mr. Murray, and said Mr. Wheeler did not lobby the agency at all in the two years before joining in April. Mr. Wheeler signed a statement in which he recused himself from working with former clients, including Murray Energy, until April 2020. 
"For years E.P.A. has inconsistently analyzed the costs and benefits of its regulations, adding speculative and ill-defined benefits while ignoring important costs," Mr. Murray's company argued this year to the agency, asking for the E.P.A. to "avoid overstating the benefits of its regulations and understating their costs." 
For Phil Smith, a spokesman for the United Mine Workers, reworking the E.P.A.'s formula is far from academic. He blames the mercury rule's high costs for the loss of about 2,000 jobs in the coal industry and criticized the cost-benefit metrics used by the E.P.A. for not giving enough weight to the real-world costs of miners losing jobs. 
"People have lost their health care benefits, people have lost their dental benefits and there's a cost to that too," Mr. Smith said. 
But in Evansville, Ind., where President Trump campaigned Thursday and relayed that he ran into nine coal miners "crying out of happiness" over his aid to the industry, there is also deep fear that E.P.A.'s changes will make health consequences worse. Evansville is within 30 miles of four particularly large plants that produce millions of tons of toxic air pollution annually. 
"Everywhere you look it's just coal-fired power plants," said Mary Lyn Stoll, an environmental activist and philosophy professor at University of Southern Indiana. "They want to stop doing something the government was doing to protect people." 
Utilities, meanwhile, are expressing concern that they spent millions of dollars unnecessarily, hurting their bottom lines and costing customers higher electric bills. 
"The lion's share of the cost was one-time investments to technology to capture mercury pollution," said Dallas Burtraw, an expert in the electric utility industry at Resources for the Future, a nonpartisan Washington research organization. "Now the money has been spent. Companies aren't going to get it back." 
While Duke Energy initially opposed the mercury regulation before it was put into effect in 2011, the company has since complied with it at plants like the Cayuga station, a coal-fired power generator in west Indiana that lights up about one million homes. In 2013, Duke spent about $400 million and hired about 300 construction workers to install a 200-foot tall unit made of chemical-coated steel plates, which captures mercury and converts it into a different substance, which is then removed by chemical "scrubbers" already present in the plant. 
American Electric Power, an Ohio-based electric utility that generates power in 11 states, spent $388.4 million to install similar technology at a plant in Cason, Tex. Mercury pollution at the plant has since gone down 90 percent, said Melissa McHenry, a spokeswoman for the company, in an email. 
"Although we disagreed with provisions of the rule when it was being promulgated, our controls are in place and compliance is being achieved," Ms. McHenry wrote. "We have worked with our state regulatory commissions to recover costs for the investments made for compliance. We believe a disruption in the mercury program at this point is not needed." 
For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. 
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 
Photograph 
The Gavin Power Plant in Ohio. The Trump administration is revisiting the rules on coal plants. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MADDIE MCGARVEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) Copyright New York Times Company Sep 10, 2018 
Subject 	Compliance; 

Regulation; 
Court decisions; 
Emissions; 

Cost control; 

Regulatory agencies; 

Electric utilities; 

Public health; 
Air pollution; 

Coal-fired power plants; 
Outdoor air quality; 
Mercury; 


Environmental protection; Industrial plant emissions; Mercury pollution 
Location  Ohio  
People  Trump, Donald J  
Company / organization  Name: Duke Energy Corp  
NAICS: 221122;  
Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS: 924110  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/09/07/climate/epa-mercury-life-cost-benefit.html  
Title  E.P.A. Aims to Revalue Human Health in Its Review of Mercury Rules: [National Desk]  
Author  Davenport, Coral; Friedman, Lisa  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.15  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Sep 10, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2101153146  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2101153146?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Sep 10, 2018  
Last updated  2019-04-25  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 68 of 236 



Promised Billions for Climate Change, Poor Countries Are Still Waiting: [Foreign Desk] 
Ives, Mike.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]10 Sep 2018: A.10. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Promised+Billions+for+Climate+Change%2C+Poor+Countries+Are+Still+Waiting 09-10&volume=&issue=&spage=A.10&au=Ives%2C+Mike&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
HONG KONG -- When industrialized nations pledged in 2009 to mobilize $100 billion a year by 2020 to help the poorest countries deal with climate change, it won over some skeptics in the developing world who had argued that rich nations should pay up for contributing so much to the problem. 
But the money has been slow to materialize, with only $3.5 billion actually committed out of $10.3 billion pledged to a prominent United Nations program called the Green Climate Fund. President Trump's decision last year to cancel $2 billion in promised aid did not help. 
At a climate change conference in Thailand this past week, some delegates reached by telephone said that the setting -- the heart of Southeast Asia, a region where challenges relating to warming are readily apparent -- was grimly fitting. They described the United Nations program's shortcomings as a symbol of a broken promise. 
"The fund of hope is becoming a fund of hopelessness," said Meena Raman, legal adviser to the Third World Network, an advocacy group in Malaysia, and a former nonvoting member of the Green Climate Fund's board. 
The meeting in Bangkok of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change is a prelude to a larger one in December in Poland, where countries will try to set rules for carrying out the 2015 Paris climate accord. 
The Bangkok meeting did not specifically address financing to mitigate climate change. But it came two months after disagreements among the Green Climate Fund's board members prevented the fund from approving new projects at a routine meeting. 
Some observers say the fund's funding shortfall and bureaucratic malaise have dimmed expectations for the talks in Poland, which were already bound to be difficult. 
"The lack of real money coming through is really undermining trust in the negotiations" around how to put the Paris accord in place, said Brandon Wu, the director of policy and campaigns at ActionAid USA, an advocacy group that monitored the Bangkok meeting. "That's a big part of the logjam." 
The Green Climate Fund was designed to help developing countries prepare for climate disasters and develop low-fossil-fuel economies. It was part of a larger plan, led by Hillary Clinton, as secretary of state in 2009, to put together $100 billion a year for poor economies through a combination of government contributions and private investments. 
Many academics see contributions to the fund by wealthy countries as a moral imperative, arguing that the developing world is most vulnerable to the effects of climate change but least responsible for causing them. 
"Certainly, the richer countries should bear more of the burden in the G.C.F. because they have more means and more at stake," said Thitinan Pongsudhirak, a political scientist at Chulalongkorn University in Bangkok, referring to the fund by its initials. "Richer countries also have benefited from wealth accumulated over decades when climate issues were not at the forefront." 
The Obama administration delivered $1 billion of a $3 billion pledge to the program. But last year, Mr. Trump, while announcing plans to exit the Paris accord, said the United States would no longer pay into the Green Climate Fund. He explained his decision by saying that the contributions could eventually cost the United States "billions and billions and billions" of dollars. 
Ms. Raman said that while she still hoped to see other developed nations "step up" by contributing more to the fund, they had not yet made their exact commitments clear. 
"We're very horrified by the stance taken by the United States, but it's not the only one," she said. "All the developed countries are united around the United States in not making any progress on finance." 
World leaders vowed in Paris to avoid a warming of 2 degrees Celsius over preindustrial levels (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit), a threshold that they deemed unacceptably risky. Yet there are widely varying estimates of how much money is being spent on fighting climate change in poor economies. One reason for the discrepancy is that there is no consensus over which contributions should be counted in the tally. 
And critics of the Green Climate Fund have questioned why much of the money it is distributing has been channeled through large development banks, or private-sector enterprises led by global investment firms. They argue that more climate aid should go directly to governments in the developing world, or the communities at risk. 
"We want money, but we're hard-pressed to give our full blessing to the projects coming on board," said Lidy Nacpil, the coordinator of the Asian Peoples' Movement on Debt and Development, a regional alliance of nonprofits and community groups. 
But even critics of the fund worry about the shortfall, saying it poses risks for people in poor regions where governments are either unable or unwilling to spend more on climate mitigation and adaptation. 
The initial, Obama-era goal of securing $100 billion in climate finance and investment per year by 2020 "was the amount needed by the countries to implement their ambitions," said Neha Rai, an expert on climate finance at the International Institute for Environment and Development, a think tank in Britain. "But at the same time, irrespective of the amount, it gives a policy signal that climate-relevant investments are important." 
Southeast Asia is a case in point. 
People who live in the Asia-Pacific region are "particularly vulnerable" to the effects of a changing climate, the Asian Development Bank said last year in a report, which projected Southeast Asia to be "most affected by heat extremes" in the wider area by the end of the century. 
Of 74 approved Green Climate Fund projects worth $3.5 billion, three are in Southeast Asia and they have a combined value of nearly $156 million, according to data provided by the program. Nineteen others in the program's pipeline directly target the region and are worth $904 million. 
Ms. Nacpil said climate finance was important in Southeast Asia partly because so many cities are in coastal areas that are vulnerable to sea-level rise and must adapt. And because the number of coal-fired power plants in the region is expected to increase, she added, governments should be encouraged to bend national policies toward investments in renewable energy. 
Jenty Kirsch-Wood, a climate specialist with the United Nations Development Program, defended the Green Climate Fund by pointing to its benefits in Vietnam, where part of a $30 million grant from the program has funded the distribution of free, storm-resistant housing to people in typhoon-prone coastal areas. 
"The Green Climate Fund has revitalized hope for countries like Vietnam that they can meet their Paris agreement targets -- embracing the green energy revolution, but also helping their citizens to adapt to climate change," Ms. Kirsch-Wood said. 
But $30 million goes only so far in a country of 93 million people with an economy worth more than $200 billion and a long, exposed coastline. And in a 2015 climate plan submitted to the United Nations Framework Convention, Vietnam said that state investments could provide only 30 percent of what it needs to adapt. 
"Many developing countries have made clear that they will not be able to reach their Paris agreement targets without international climate finance," said Oyun Sanjaasuren, the Green Climate Fund's director of external affairs. 
"For its part, G.C.F.'s pipeline of climate projects in developing countries shows that demand for climate finance already exceeds supply," she said. 

Photograph 
Clockwise from top: farmers on a parched field in Bang Pla Ma district, north of Bangkok; a thick haze in Palangkaraya, Indonesia; a protest outside the United Nations building 
on Friday in Bangkok, where a climate change conference was being held. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICOLAS ASFOURI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES; 
WISANGGENI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES; JEWEL SAMAD/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 
Copyright New York Times Company Sep 10, 2018 

Subject 	Climate change; 
Coasts; 
Political campaigns; 
Developing countries--LDCs; 
Coal-fired power plants; 
Paris Agreement 


Location 	Thailand; United Kingdom--UK; Malaysia; Poland; France; Indonesia; Asia-Pacific region; 

Southeast Asia; United States--US; Bangkok Thailand; Vietnam 


People 	Trump, Donald J; Clinton, Hillary Rodham 
Company / organization 	Name: Chulalongkorn University 

NAICS: 611310; 

Name: Asian Development Bank NAICS: 522110, 523120, 928120; 
Name: United Nations Development Programme NAICS: 928120; 
Name: United Nations--UN NAICS: 928120; 
Name: ActionAid 

NAICS: 813311; 

Name: United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change NAICS: 928120 
URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/09/09/world/asia/green-climate-fund-global-warming.html 
Title 	Promised Billions for Climate Change, Poor Countries Are Still Waiting: [Foreign Desk] 
Author  Ives, Mike  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.10  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Sep 10, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2101153024  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2101153024?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Sep 10, 2018  
Last updated  2019-01-09  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 69 of 236 


Trailing Carbon Footprints Across Borders: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Plumer, Brad.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]06 Sep 2018: B.1. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Trailing+Carbon+Footprints+Across+Borders%3A+%5BBusiness%2FFinancial+D 09-06&volume=&issue=&spage=B.1&au=Plumer%2C+Brad&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Over the past decade, both the United States and Europe have made major strides in reducing their greenhouse gas emissions at home. That trend is often held up as a sign of progress in the fight against climate change. 
But those efforts look a lot less impressive once you take trade into account. Many wealthy countries have effectively "outsourced" a big chunk of their carbon pollution overseas, by importing more steel, cement and other goods from factories in China and other places, rather than producing it domestically. 
Britain, for instance, slashed domestic emissions within its own borders by one-third between 1990 and 2015. But it has done so as energy-intensive industries have migrated abroad. If you included all the global emissions produced in the course of making things like the imported steel used in London's skyscrapers and cars, then Britain's total carbon footprint has actually increased slightly over that time. 
"It's a huge problem," said Ali Hasanbeigi, a research scientist and chief executive of Global Efficiency Intelligence, an energy and environmental consulting firm. "If a country is meeting its climate goals by outsourcing emissions elsewhere, then we're not making as much progress as we thought." 
Dr. Hasanbeigi is an author of a new report on the global carbon trade, which estimates that 25 percent of the world's total emissions are now being outsourced in this manner. The report, written with the consulting firm KGM & Associates and ClimateWorks, calls this a "carbon loophole," since countries rarely scrutinize the carbon footprint of the goods they import. 
That may be changing. Last fall, California's lawmakers took an early stab at confronting the issue by setting new low-carbon standards on the steel the state buys for its infrastructure projects. But dealing with imported emissions remains a thorny problem. 
Some environmentalists see it as the next frontier of climate policy. 
'Game of Whack-a-Mole' 
The new report, which analyzes global trade from 15,000 different sectors -- from toys and office equipment to glass and aluminum -- builds on previous academic research to provide one of the most detailed pictures yet of the global carbon trade. 
Not surprisingly, China, which has become the world's largest emitter of carbon dioxide, remains the world's factory. About 13 percent of China's emissions in 2015 came from making stuff for other countries. In India, another fast-growing emitter, the figure is 20 percent. 
The United States, for its part, remains the world's leading importer of what the researchers call "embodied carbon." If the United States were held responsible for all the pollution worldwide that resulted from manufacturing the cars, clothing and other goods that Americans use, the nation's carbon dioxide emissions would be 14 percent bigger than its domestic-only numbers suggest. 
Between 1995 and 2015, the report found, as wealthier countries like Japan and Germany were cutting their own emissions, they were also doubling or tripling the amount of carbon dioxide they outsourced to China. 
Under the Paris climate agreement, countries are held responsible only for the emissions produced within their own borders. Experts have long debated whether that makes sense. Is it unfair that China and India are blamed for emissions that occur because they're making goods for richer nations? What about the fact that they also benefit from having those factories and jobs? 
The migration of industries like cement and steel overseas can also shift production to less-efficient factories governed by looser pollution rules. An earlier study that Dr. Hasanbeigi led at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory found that China's steel industry, on average, emits 23 percent more carbon dioxide per ton of steel produced than American and German manufacturers do. One big reason? China's power grid relies more heavily on coal. 
Since the financial crisis in 2008, however, the outsourcing of emissions from wealthy countries to developing countries has started to slow. More recently, much of the growth in carbon outsourcing is occurring between developing countries, according to a recent study in Nature Communications. 
"Just as China's starting to deal with its emissions, it's been pushing some of its more carbon-intensive activities into countries like Cambodia, Vietnam and India," said Steven 
J. Davis, a scientist at the University of California, Irvine and co-author of that study. 
"From a climate policy context," he added, "it's like a game of whack-a-mole." 
The Unlikely 'Tax' Solution 
One possible solution to all this emissions shifting would be for all countries to work together to enact a global carbon tax that applied equally everywhere. But in the real world, that is unlikely to happen anytime soon. And, while some politicians like President Emmanuel Macron of France have suggested that Europe put its own carbon tax on imported products, that idea has not gained traction. 
So some policymakers are exploring other ideas. 
Last October, California enacted a new "Buy Clean" law that requires steel, glass and other materials used in public works projects to meet certain low-carbon standards. The law came after a controversy over the refurbishing of San Francisco's Bay Bridge, when the state bought steel from a heavily polluting Chinese mill instead of from cleaner facilities in California and Oregon. 
California's new law may initially favor domestic producers -- which helps explain why it was supported by some steel companies and the United Steelworkers. And in the long term, environmentalists hope the policy could have a ripple effect worldwide. 
"California can't go regulate factories in other parts of the world," said Kathryn Phillips, director of the Sierra Club's California chapter. "But we can say, if you want to do business with us, the world's fifth-largest economy, you have to do what you can to reduce emissions." 
Lawmakers in Washington State recently requested a study of "Buy Clean" standards for their state, and a similar bill was introduced in Oregon's last legislative session. But the idea can be contentious: In California, the cement industry fought hard to be exempted from the rule. Steel and cement production worldwide each account for about 5 percent of global emissions. 
The construction industry is also starting to take an interest in the carbon footprint of the materials it uses. The U.S. Green Building Council, a nonprofit that certifies buildings as "green" under the LEED label, currently encourages environmental disclosures for a variety of building materials like cement or glass. A new round of LEED standards, currently in development, could go even further by urging low-carbon standards. 
Chris Erickson, the chief executive of Climate Earth, a firm that helps companies assess the environmental impact of their supply chains, says that even transparency can be eye-opening. His company built a searchable database of different concrete mixes that are available, allowing architects to seek out materials that have, in some cases, a carbon footprint that is one-third of the industry average. 
That, in turn, could put pressure on suppliers to lower their emissions. "Even for companies who don't want to admit it," Mr. Erickson said, "they know a change is coming." 

Chart 
British Emissions Are Higher When Imports Are Included (Source: Global Efficiency Intelligence and KGM & Associates) Copyright New York Times Company Sep 6, 2018 
Subject 	International trade; 
Outsourcing; 

Manufacturing; 
Greenhouse gases; 
Emissions; 

Environmentalists; 
Carbon dioxide; 
Consulting firms; 
Environmental tax; 

Developing countries--LDCs; 
Green buildings; 

Pollution control; 
Factories; 
Cement; 
Environmental policy; 
Climate change 


Location 	United States--US; Europe 
URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/09/04/climate/outsourcing-carbon-emissions.html 
Title 	Trailing Carbon Footprints Across Borders: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Author 	Plumer, Brad 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	B.1 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Sep 6, 2018 
Section 	B 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2099775126  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2099775126?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Sep 6, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-19  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 70 of 236 


In California, Facts and Science Matter: [Editorial] 
New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]04 Sep 2018: A.20. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=In+California%2C+Facts+and+Science+Matter%3A+%5BEditorial%5D&title= 09-04&volume=&issue=&spage=A.20&au=&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
CORRECTION APPENDED. People who worry about climate change have been in a state of high anxiety about President Trump's ignorance about the issue, his assault on Obama-era policies designed to do something about it and the growing evidence that extreme weather events and other consequences of global warming, long predicted by mainstream scientists, are now upon us. 
Along comes California -- yet again -- to make people feel better about the possibility of serious action. The state is taking new steps to reduce its own greenhouse gas emissions and, in so doing, it is reaffirming its willingness to lead on a matter of global and national concern when Mr. Trump will not. 
On Tuesday, the State Legislature approved a bill mandating that by 2045 all of the state's electricity come from renewable and zero carbon sources like wind, solar, hydropower and nuclear. The original goal was 50 percent renewables by 2030; this bill kicks the target up to 60 percent by 2030 en route to zero carbon by 2045. 
The move is part of California's broader effort to cut economywide emissions from all sources by 40 percent from 1990 levels by 2030, and stands in luminous contrast to Mr. Trump's recent power plant proposal that would do essentially nothing to reduce emissions beyond what market forces are likely to achieve. Unlike President Barack Obama's Clean Power Plan, the Trump proposal sets no performance standards, or targets, and would allow states to decide how -- or even whether -- to regulate climate-altering emissions from coal-burning power plants. Making his political intentions crystal clear, Mr. Trump traveled to West Virginia to highlight the plan and extol the virtues of "beautiful, clean coal." 
California's action came in advance of what can be seen as another thumb in Mr. Trump's eye, the Global Climate Action Summit in San Francisco, Sept. 12 to 14, co-hosted by California's governor, Jerry Brown, and the former New York mayor and current climate activist Michael Bloomberg. There will be three days of speeches and seminars on the roles that technology, municipalities, states and businesses can play in the fight against climate change, plus appearances by climate combat veterans like Al Gore and John Kerry. The event as a whole will provide a kind of group therapy session -- as well as a reunion of sorts -- for officials and activists deeply angered by Mr. Trump's refusal to hold up America's end of the bargain struck at the climate change summit in Paris in December 2015. The Obama administration promised major cuts in America's emissions, which alone account for about one-fifth of the world's total, second only to the carbon pollution coming from China. 
Mr. Trump startled the world on June 1 of last year by announcing his decision to withdraw from that agreement, but within days of his announcement an astonishing assemblage of more than 1,200 governors, mayors and businesses promised in a letter titled "We Are Still In" that they would do everything they could to honor Mr. Obama's promises. The letter argued that global warming imposes real and rising costs, and that the clean energy economy to which the Paris agreement aspired offered enormous opportunities for American industry and workers. The same crowd, and these same themes, will be much in evidence in San Francisco next week. 
California, obviously, is not alone in this fight. Massachusetts and other states are gearing up for a fierce legal response to Mr. Trump's dirty power plan. But California is different in several respects, including its sheer size, its long record of leading the nation on environmental protection and, not least, its robust bipartisan history of tackling climate change. It was Arnold Schwarzenegger, a Republican, who in 2006 signed a landmark bill, known as AB 32, aimed at reducing economywide emissions from multiple sources of carbon dioxide. At the time, the administration of President George W. Bush was doing next to nothing about the problem. 
The California law affected businesses and consumers across the board, requiring cleaner cars, energy-efficient buildings and alternative fuels. It was the same Governor Schwarzenegger who, four years later, beat back a coalition of oil companies and big money men, including Charles and David Koch, who tried to neuter that law with a ballot initiative. He also endorsed the most recent renewable-energy bill in a letter to legislators. 
California may feel, too, a special sense of urgency, not to mention a special sense of grievance. In early August, in another big swipe at Mr. Obama's climate agenda, the Trump administration announced a rollback of part of the former president's ambitious fuel efficiency standards for automobiles. The Trump plan would not only weaken the rules but also strip California of its historic right, conferred by federal clean air laws, to set its own air quality standards. Those standards -- which 13 other states have chosen to follow ­
- led during the Obama years to a set of nationwide fuel economy benchmarks that, until Mr. Trump intervened, promised consumers years of steadily cleaner and more efficient cars. California, not surprisingly, has vowed to fight. 
As if finding itself in Mr. Trump's cross hairs were not enough, California has reason right now to feel especially vulnerable to climate change itself. This year's brutal wildfires have set records for scope and financial destruction, and on Aug. 27 a new statewide assessment from the California Natural Resources Agency, based on dozens of peer-reviewed studies, promised more of the same in the decades to come. And not just more wildfires, but also rising oceans that could erode between a third and two-thirds of Southern California's shoreline, many more heat-related fatalities, billions of dollars in damages and a diminished snowpack. All will bear the fingerprints of climate change. 
"In California, facts and science still matter," Governor Brown said in commenting on the report. "These findings are profoundly serious and will continue to guide us as we confront the apocalyptic threat of irreversible climate change." 
The reference to facts and science was a nice little needle aimed at the White House. Where, on this issue, they don't seem to matter at all. 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion) , and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter . 
Correction: September 4, 2018, Tuesday 
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this editorial misstated how California's new zero carbon energy standard could be reached. The law requires that by 2045 all the state's electricity come from sources that don't produce carbon emissions, including wind, solar, hydro and nuclear power. It does not require that power be produced only by renewable sources like wind, solar and hydropower. 
Credit: THE EDITORIAL BOARD 

Illustration 
DRAWING (DRAWING BY ALEX MERTO) Copyright New York Times Company Sep 4, 2018 
Subject 	Editorials; 

Science; 
Emissions; 

Carbon; 
Environmental regulations; 

Electric power; 
Air pollution; 

Energy efficiency; 
Presidents; 
Alternative energy sources; 

Renewable resources; 
Energy policy; 
Climate change; 
State laws; 
Industrial plant emissions 


Location 	United States--US; Southern California; California; San Francisco California 
People 	Trump, Donald J; Brown, Edmund G Jr (Jerry) 
Company / organization 	Name: Natural Resources Agency-California 

NAICS: 924110 


URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/09/03/opinion/california-climate-change-renewable-energy.html 
Title 	In California, Facts and Science Matter: [Editorial] 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.20 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Sep 4, 2018 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	General Interest Periodicals--United States 
ISSN 	03624331 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	Editorial 
ProQuest document ID  2098937988  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2098937988?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Sep 4, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-19  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 71 of 236 


The Trump Vibe Spreads Down Under: [Commentary] 
Dowd, Maureen.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]02 Sep 2018: SR.9. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=The+Trump+Vibe+Spreads+Down+Under%3A+%5BCommentary%5D&title= 09-02&volume=&issue=&spage=SR.9&au=Dowd%2C+Maureen&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
SYDNEY, Australia -- Scheming white men, once allies in the conservative cause, knifing one another in the back. Complaints about pervasive -- and sexist -- bullying at the top. Galloping paranoia on the right. Wrenching battles over whether refugee policies are racist and cruel, and whether climate change fears are overwrought. A juicy government scandal involving illicit favors for a pair of comely young women. 
Welcome to chaos, Australian-style. Down under, there's no demonic, mesmerizing Macy's parade balloon of a leader like Donald Trump. But there are still plenty of echoes with America's mad, ugly Thunderdome. 
In the dizzying quadrille of leaders known here as "Canberra's churn," Australia has a brand new prime minister. That makes six prime ministers in 10 years, with Kevin Rudd serving twice. While everyone in America knew who Trump was when he was elected, only half the people here were familiar with Scott Morrison when he suddenly catapulted to the top job a week ago. 
As in America, a woman in the running -- who had been the top diplomat -- was shockingly shoved aside at the last minute. And the man who has taken over is not as popular as his more personable predecessor. In both countries, there is widespread exasperation with a flawed political system that coughs up heads of government who capture a branch of their party without capturing the hearts of most of the country. 
In Australia, they use a deceptively innocent word, "spill," to describe the brutal parliamentary decapitation wherein politicians can topple popularly elected prime ministers and put another in place for no apparent reason. The fracturing of conservative politics here means that, especially on social issues, the governing conservative coalition does not reflect consensus opinion in the country. For instance, Morrison opposed same-sex marriage, which a large majority of Australians favored. (Like the water swirling down the drain clockwise or appetizers being dubbed entrees, the Liberal Party means the opposite here. It's a rough equivalent of the Republican Party, complete with a hard-right element that dog-whistles on race.) 
"Polls tell us that if elections were held next Saturday, this government would be swept from office in a landslide," says Frank Bongiorno, a professor of history at the Australian National University. "The shenanigans and general ugliness of the Canberra leadership spill increased people's disillusionment and disaffection with the political process." 
He adds: "I think Trump gives the Liberal Party a feeling of confidence that they can do a Trump in Australia because history might be on their side." And that retro swagger is boosted by Rupert Murdoch's media empire here, reflecting the argot of Trump's America. 
Morrison's main appeal is that he beat out the man who started the spill, Peter Dutton, a repellent Ted Cruz figure who is the subject of a Senate inquiry for helping friends and donors keep two au pairs -- one French and one Italian -- in the country while the asylum seekers he has dismissed as "illiterate and innumerate" are stuck in a hellscape on two island detention centers. (By Friday, when a third au pair had popped up, The Sydney Morning Herald had dubbed Dutton, the home affairs minister, "The Minister for Foreign Au Pairs.") Morrison also took a hard stance on refugees to maintain Fortress Australia, with his "Stop the Boats" policy as immigration minister. 
In the snappiest slogan since Hillary mulled "It's Her Turn," the ordinary-bloke mantra of Morrison, Australia's first Pentecostal prime minister, is: "If you have a go in this country, you will get a go. There is a fair go for those who have a go." 
Australian opinion on climate change is more liberal than the position staked out by Morrison. Just as Trump talks about "beautiful" coal -- maybe precisely what you don't want in your Christmas stocking -- Morrison last year brought a lump of coal to the House of Representatives and stroked it while he complained about "coal-o-phobia" on the left. 
It was the attempt by Malcolm Turnbull to offer a modest policy on reducing emissions that sparked the Julius Caesar plotting that toppled him from the prime minister slot. 
Tony Abbott, the former Liberal prime minister who helped mastermind the ouster of Turnbull, called climate change "absolute crap," comparing efforts to fight it to "primitive people once killing goats to appease the volcano gods." Is he oblivious to the fact that half the coral in the Great Barrier Reef is dead, looking ghostly gray and white? 
The spill did not do anything to improve Canberra's reputation as a breeding ground for toxic frontier masculinity, where women are in a subordinate zone. 
Julie Bishop, the popular Liberal Party's minister for foreign affairs, got iced out by her less popular male colleagues; JBish, as she is known, took it with her usual style, wearing defiant scarlet satin heels for her resignation press conference. 
Julia Banks, a Liberal M.P., was so disgusted with the brass-knuckle tactics of the Liberal wolf pack that she announced she would not run again. "The scourge of cultural and gender bias, bullying and intimidation continues against women in politics, the media, and across businesses," she said in a statement, adding, "Women have suffered in silence for too long." 
Sarah Hanson-Young, a senator with the Greens Party, is suing a male politician who called out across the floor of the Senate in June, during a debate on violence against women, telling her to "stop shagging men." 
As Bongiorno notes: "It's a very bad look. And in the end, if a government smells bad enough, it will be tossed out at re-election for sure." 
The spill was so crazy because it was not a contest of ideas, just slippery mud wrestling. 
I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@MaureenDowd) and join me on Facebook. 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 

Photograph 
Scott Morrison, then Australia's treasurer, spoke to journalists in May about the budget. A week ago he became prime minister. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKAS COCH/EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK) 
Copyright New York Times Company Sep 2, 2018 
Subject 	Conservatism; 
Corruption in government; 
Politics; 

Political leadership; 
Political parties; 
Social networks; 
Political ethics; 
Scandals; 

Climate change; 
Prime ministers 


Location 	Great Barrier Reef; United States--US; Australia; Canberra Australian Capital Territory Australia 
People 	Dutton, Peter; Trump, Donald J; Murdoch, Rupert; Rudd, Kevin; Turnbull, Malcolm; 

Morrison, Kevin 


Company / organization 	Name: Liberal Party-Australia 

NAICS: 813940 


URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/09/01/opinion/sunday/australia-trump-murdoch.html 
Title 	The Trump Vibe Spreads Down Under: [Commentary] 
Author 	Dowd, Maureen 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	SR.9 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Sep 2, 2018 
column 	Op-Ed Columnist 
Section 	SR 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	General Interest Periodicals--United States 
ISSN 	03624331 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  2098342151  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2098342151?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Sep 2, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-19  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 72 of 236 


The Sunshine Statement: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Penn, Ivan.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]31 Aug 2018: B.1. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=The+Sunshine+Statement%3A+%5BBusiness%2FFinancial+Desk%5D&title=New 08-31&volume=&issue=&spage=B.1&au=Penn%2C+Ivan&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
ORLANDO, Fla. -- This city has long been a leading tourist destination. Now, it is vying for another distinction: to be a pioneer in weaning itself from carbon-based energy. 
You can see its aspirations in the thousands of ponds all over the city that collect the runoff from Central Florida's frequent downpours. Floating solar panels rise and fall in the 
water, sending power to the grid. 
There is also evidence along city streets, where solar panels sit atop streetlights to power them instead of using the electric grid. About 18,000 of the 25,000 in the city already 

have been converted to high-efficiency light-emitting diodes. 

Even algae pools may play a role. That's where officials are testing a system to trap the carbon that the city emits from power plants or transportation, rather than release it 
into the atmosphere. 
Orlando, in short, is charting its own course to help curb the effects of climate change. In part, it is stepping in where the federal government has pulled back. It is among 

almost 300 American cities and counties that have reaffirmed the goals of the Paris climate accord since President Trump announced last year that he intended to withdraw the 

United States from the pact. 
"Cities, we're having to take the lead," said Chris Castro, the city's director of sustainability. "You would have expected the federal government to be taking the lead, but the 
federal government seems to be backing away every day from the commitments they've made." 

Orlando has set a goal of generating all of its energy from carbon-free sources by 2050. Its efforts will be recognized next month at a major climate conference in California. But setting goals is proving far easier than achieving them. And environmental groups like the Sierra Club are agitating to make sure the commitments are more than just talk. 
[Read more: California legislators voted to require that 100 percent of the state's electricity come from carbon-free sources by 2045.] 
Mayor Buddy Dyer acknowledges that the city's goals will require more than resolve. "As a community, we've been really good about creating visions," he said. "I think we all 
recognize that we need technology advancements to get to 100 percent." 

Here in the center of the Sunshine State, significant potential rests with solar power. 

By 2020, solar power is expected to make up 8 percent of the electricity generation of the city-owned utility, which powers much of the metropolitan area, including Universal 
Studios and SeaWorld, while investor-owned utilities serve some neighboring areas. 
The municipal utility has installed equipment to generate 20 megawatts of community solar power -- enough to power roughly 3,200 homes -- on places like canopies over 

parking lots. The city's 280,000 residents contribute an additional 10 megawatts of solar power from equipment on their rooftops. 

As an incentive to install solar panels, homeowners receive full retail value for electricity they send to the electric grid, an arrangement known as net metering. The utility also 
provides discount installation of home solar equipment and is looking at offering batteries. 
And the city wants to float a large solar array on the pools of a water treatment plant, potentially offering a model for cities and utilities nationwide. 
But solar power alone will not get Orlando to 100 percent clean energy, experts say. 
For one thing, like other cities, Orlando struggles with its reliance on one of the dirtiest fuels for producing electricity -- coal. Los Angeles, which also generates municipal power, 

has proposed to replace remaining coal plants with natural-gas facilities, which produce half as much carbon as coal units. In Orlando's case, about 47 percent of the energy mix 

comes from two coal units at the Curtis H. Stanton Energy Center, home also to two generators powered by natural gas. 
The city is reviewing the future of the coal component. A transition from power plants burning coal and natural gas might force consumers to foot the bill for closing facilities by 
paying off their remaining debt early while also paying for the new technologies. 

As Orlando tries to increase its use of intermittent sources like wind and solar power, battery storage will be important, but it remains costly. 
And critics argue that focusing on power plants addresses only a portion of the greenhouse-gas problem. In 2017, a little more than a third of the nation's energy consumption 
came from the electric power industry, while transportation and the industrial sector made up about half, according to the Energy Information Administration. 

Even the distance to the goal is open to question. "There's a fundamental disconnect on what 100 percent means," said Arshad Mansoor, senior vice president of research and development at the Electric Power Research Institute, a nonprofit group that does research for the nation's utilities. 
In the electricity industry's calculus, 100 percent carbon-free may not mean 100 percent zero emissions. Sometimes, as Orlando talks of doing, it means buying credits produced from carbon-free power plants elsewhere -- a benefit used to encourage development of clean power sources -- to offset dirty emissions. 
But Orlando aims to do all it can to achieve its goals in practice, not just on paper. And it is moving on many fronts. 
Some measures, at this point, aim to curb rather than eliminate the use of carbon fuels. Natural gas powers the government-run bus system that serves the city and three neighboring counties, and garbage trucks have hybrid engines, reducing the use of gasoline. (The police force has gone a step farther, with electric motorcycles.) 
At its vehicle maintenance shop, Orlando operates a natural gas station that blends the fuel and fills the fleet of trucks. The facility receives 60 percent of its power -- and will soon receive all -- from the 1,530 solar panels on the roof. 
Other city buildings and operations have moved to energy-efficient systems under a mandate to show no consumption from the electric grid -- a distinction called net-zero energy usage -- by 2030. Part of the goal is to reduce emissions and electricity use rather than just shifting to power from carbon-free sources. 
In some cases, Orlando is making common cause with other cities. It has joined Boston, Chicago and Los Angeles to harness their collective purchasing power in hopes of reducing the cost of carbon-free products -- including electric vehicles and batteries for electricity storage -- by buying in bulk. 
"We're going to be looking for new business models," said Clint Bullock, the recently appointed general manager and chief executive of the city-owned power company, the Orlando Utilities Commission. "The biggest risk for us is not changing." 
Conservationists are watching. "People in the communities that commit to 100 percent clean energy expect and deserve 100 percent clean energy, not a continued reliance on old coal plants or a build-out of dirty gas plants," said Michael Brune, executive director of the Sierra Club. "That's why we are seeing leaders in communities across the country leverage these commitments to push utilities and politicians to walk the talk." 
And the more progress that is made to reach the goal, the more effort it requires to close the gap. 
"It gets more challenging as you get closer and closer to 100 percent," said Ed Smeloff, director of grid integration for Vote Solar, a nonprofit organization in Oakland, Calif., that promotes carbon-free energy. "The future to get to 100 percent is probably more diverse than we're seeing right now." 

Photograph 
Solar panels on a rooftop in Orlando, Fla. By 2020, the city expects that solar power will provide 8 percent of the electricity generated by the municipal utility. (B1); The Orlando 
Utilities Commission has installed a floating solar array in a retention pond. Floating panels rise and fall in the water, sending power to the grid.; Under Mayor Buddy Dyer, 
Orlando has vowed to reach 100 percent carbon-free energy by 2050. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EDWARD LINSMIER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B3) 
Copyright New York Times Company Aug 31, 2018 

Subject 	Consumption; 
Electricity distribution; 
Emissions; 

Clean technology; 

Research & development--R&D; 
Climate change; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Natural gas; 
Solar energy; 
Carbon; 
Electric power; 
Coal-fired power plants; 
Cities; 
Nonprofit organizations 


Location 	Chicago Illinois; Florida; New York; United States--US; California; Los Angeles California 
People 	Trump, Donald J 
Company / organization 	Name: Sierra Club 

NAICS: 813312; 

Name: Energy Information Administration 

NAICS: 926130; 

Name: New York Times Co 

NAICS: 511110, 511120, 515112, 515120; 


Name: Orlando Utilities Commission 

NAICS: 926130; 

Name: Electric Power Research Institute 

NAICS: 541711 


URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/30/business/energy-environment/orlando-carbon-climate.html 
Title  The Sunshine Statement: [Business/Financial Desk]  
Author  Penn, Ivan  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.1  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Aug 31, 2018  
Section  B  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2097339204  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2097339204?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Aug 31, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-19  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 73 of 236 


Regulation On Mercury Is Reviewed By E.P.A.: [National Desk] 
Davenport, Coral.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]30 Aug 2018: A.16. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Regulation+On+Mercury+Is+Reviewed+By+E.P.A.%3A+%5BNational+Desk%5D 08-30&volume=&issue=&spage=A.16&au=Davenport%2C+Coral&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up for our Climate Fwd: newsletter. 
WASHINGTON -- The Trump administration is reviewing a major Obama-era clean air regulation on the emission of mercury -- a pollutant linked with damage to the brain, to the nervous system and to fetal development -- with the intent of proposing a replacement rule, a spokeswoman for the Environmental Protection Agency said Wednesday. 
The E.P.A.'s review of the 2011 mercury rule comes amid a string of initiatives by the Trump administration to roll back or weaken many environmental regulations put forth by the Obama administration. After reviewing the rule, a process which typically takes 60 to 90 days, the E.P.A. will issue a proposed replacement rule, the agency spokeswoman, Molly Block, said in an email. 
The mercury regulation under review chiefly affects pollution from coal-fired power plants. The move comes as President Trump has pressed forward on numerous fronts in an attempt to meet his campaign pledge to revive the nation's coal industry, despite economic analyses showing that the decline in demand for coal is largely driven by market forces rather than regulations. 
Last week, the E.P.A. proposed a new rule designed to replace the Clean Power Plan, another major Obama-era regulation governing coal-fired power plants. That rule would have restricted coal plants' emission of a different pollutant: carbon dioxide, one of the chief causes of global warming. 
At the time the Obama administration put forth the mercury regulations, which took more than 20 years to formulate, E.P.A. officials estimated they would save thousands of lives and return economic and health benefits many times their estimated $9.6 billion annual cost. 
While owners of coal plants fought the rule in the courts, most have since complied with regulation. Because coal plant owners have already invested in the technology required to lower mercury pollution, some analysts say, it makes little sense to change the regulation now. 
"This is reckless chaos for the sake of chaos," said John Walke, an expert on the Clean Air Act with the Natural Resources Defense Council, an advocacy group. "The power sector is fully complying and has appealed to E.P.A. publicly, with labor organizations, to leave the standards alone." 
If the agency rolls back the rules, he said, it raises the prospect that "coal plant owners will face legal challenges to prior utility-commission approvals of pollution-control costs incurred to meet those obligations." 
In 2015, in a victory for opponents of the mercury rule, the Supreme Court concluded that the E.P.A. did not appropriately consider the costs to industry when crafting the rule and directed the E.P.A. to recalculate those costs. The Obama administration then reissued the rule in 2016, and power plants have complied with it since then. 
Jeffrey Holmstead, a lawyer who represents coal-burning electric utilities and who served in the E.P.A. under former President George W. Bush, said in an email he was "not surprised" that the agency was reviewing the Obama-era finding that it was "appropriate and necessary" to regulate power plants for mercury pollution considering that several Supreme Court justices "expressed skepticism about the argument that the Obama E.P.A. made to support its second finding, which the current E.P.A. is now reviewing." 
Mr. Holmstead said, however, that he did not expect the Trump administration to try to eliminate a rule on mercury pollution entirely. "It would serve no purpose because the power sector has already spent billions of dollars to bring all their plants into compliance." 
For more climate and environment news, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. 
Copyright New York Times Company Aug 30, 2018 
Subject 	Regulatory agencies; 

Pollutants; 
Costs; 
Coal-fired power plants; 
Regulation; 
Mercury; 

Industrial plant emissions; 

Mercury pollution 


People  Trump, Donald J; Bush, George W  
Company / organization  Name:  Twitter Inc  
NAICS:  519130;  

Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA NAICS: 924110; 
Name: Natural Resources Defense Council  
NAICS: 813312  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/29/climate/epa-mercury-emissions.html  
Title  Regulation On Mercury Is Reviewed By E.P.A.: [National Desk]  
Author  Davenport, Coral  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.16  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Aug 30, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2096271782  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2096271782?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Aug 30, 2018  
Last updated  2019-04-25  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 74 of 236 


Pollution May Be Diminishing Thinking Skills, Study in China Suggests: [Foreign Desk] 
Ives, Mike.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]30 Aug 2018: A.8. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Pollution+May+Be+Diminishing+Thinking+Skills%2C+Study+in+China+Suggest 08-30&volume=&issue=&spage=A.8&au=Ives%2C+Mike&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
HONG KONG -- A large study in China suggests a link between air pollution and negative effects on people's language and math skills. 
The link between pollution and respiratory diseases is well known, and most experts now believe that small particulates may also raise the risk for strokes and heart attacks. Whether this form of air pollution impairs cognition is not yet certain, but several studies have hinted at a connection. 
The latest study, by researchers based in China and the United States, analyzed how long-term exposure to air pollution affected performance on nationwide math and word-recognition tests by more than 25,000 people across 162 Chinese counties. It was published on Monday in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. 
The authors based their findings on models they built that combined weather and pollution data from specific locations in China where people had taken nationwide tests in 2010 and 2014, as well as the test scores themselves. Their analysis tried to document how short- and long-term pollution exposure might have affected the scores -- and, by extension, the test-takers' brains. 
The authors found that the cognitive impact of cumulative exposure among the test takers was especially pronounced among older men, and that the results were troubling in part because cognitive decline and impairment are risk factors for Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia. 
The study "further amplifies the need to tackle air pollution now to protect the health of particularly the young and elderly populations," Heather Adair-Rohani, a technical officer for public health and environment at the World Health Organization in Geneva, which was not involved in the study, said in an email. 
Atmospheric pollution has long been recognized as a significant threat to global public health. 
In 2016, the W.H.O. reported that 92 percent of people worldwide breathe what it classified as unhealthy air. It defined that air as having concentrations of fine particulate matter, known as PM2.5, above 10 micrograms per cubic meter, or 35.3 cubic feet. 
The agency said in May that outdoor air pollution caused approximately 4.2 million premature deaths worldwide in 2016, more than a million of them in China, and that short-and long-term exposure increased the risk of stroke, heart disease, lung cancer and chronic and acute respiratory diseases. 
This month a study in the journal Environmental Science & Technology Letters calculated that air pollution was reducing average life expectancies; the exact risk depended on location -- around nine months in Russia, for example, or 1.9 years in Egypt. 
But few epidemiological studies have analyzed associations between air pollution and cognition in older adults, a team of researchers from France and Britain wrote in a 2014 study in the journal Epidemiology. Their study found that traffic-related pollution in greater London was associated with declining cognitive functions over time among study participants, who had an average age of 66. 
In China, which already has the world's largest population of people with dementia, the number is expected to rise to 75.6 million by 2030, up from about 44.4 million in 2013, according to a report that year by Alzheimer's Disease International, a nonprofit based in Chicago. 
The new study's findings "imply that the indirect effect on social welfare could be much larger than previously thought," the authors wrote. "A narrow focus on the negative effect on health may underestimate the total cost of air pollution." 
The study used test scores from the 2010 and 2014 editions of China Family Panel Studies, an interview-based exam given nationwide, as well as air-quality data from readings of three types of pollutants: sulfur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide and particulate matter that is smaller than 10 micrometers in diameter, called PM10. 
"Essentially, we compare the same person in two time periods," said Zhang Xin, the study's lead author and a pollution expert at Bejing Normal University, referring to the study's methodology. "The major variation stems from exposure to local air pollution at the date of interview, which is largely random." 
The study found that "accumulative exposure" had a pronounced impact on verbal test scores -- especially for older, less-educated men -- and that cutting the local concentration of PM10 to levels that meet United States Environmental Protection Agency air quality standards would move people up from the median, or 50th percentile, to the 58th percentile on math test scores and the 63rd percentile on verbal scores. 
He Guojun, an economist at the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology who studies pollution in China, said that he hoped the new study would be the first of many to examine apparent links between pollution and cognition in China. "The paper is quite solid, both in terms of data and methodology and results," said Dr. He, who was not involved in the study. 
The research tried to minimize the impact of other variables besides pollution. For example, it excluded test takers who migrated across counties between 2010 and 2014, and others who worked in mining, smelting, wood processing and other "polluted occupations." 
However, Dr. He said, measuring long-term effects of pollution exposure can be difficult, in part because individual exposure depends on so many factors -- including, for example, whether a person uses air filters at home. 
In another critique, Rajasekhar Balasubramanian, an air quality expert at the National University of Singapore, noted that while the study's authors speculate that continued exposure to pollution can alter brain chemistry, they offered no clinical proof. (The authors agreed, writing that the hypothesis should be explored further.) 
But Dr. Balasubramanian said the study was useful in part because, while the effects of pollution on children's cognition had been documented by epidemiologists, this was the first to focus on such risks to China's older people. He said similar research was now needed in other countries. 
"The outcome of such studies would provide a sound scientific basis for tightening air quality standards to curtail air pollution and protect public health in both developing and developed countries," Dr. Balasubramanian, who was not involved in the study, said in an emailed statement. 
As public outrage has grown in China over smog and respiratory illnesses related to it, officials have in recent years closed hundreds of coal-fired power plants, imposed limits on driving and residential coal burning, and sent teams of police officers to inspect factories. 
But China's carbon dioxide emissions increased last year, and even though the country is on its way to meeting its major climate change goals, many of its cities still have dangerously high levels of outdoor air pollution. 
In one sign of the problems, a study published in April found that about 142 million people, or just over half the population surveyed in 155 Chinese cities, were exposed in 2014 to average annual "multicontaminant concentrations" that were above the World Health Organization's limits. The study said that eastern China and megacities were worst affected. 

Photograph 
A hazy day in Beijing in February. A link between pollution and respiratory diseases is well known. Now studies are looking into the impact on cognition. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROMAN PILIPEY/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) Copyright New York Times Company Aug 30, 2018 
Subject  Studies; Air pollution; Outdoor air quality; Cognition & reasoning  
Location  Beijing China; Chicago Illinois; Russia; United States--US; Egypt; United Kingdom--UK; China; Hong Kong; France  
People  Zhang Xin  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 924110;  
Name: NAICS:  Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 511120;  
Name: NAICS:  National University of Singapore 611310;  
Name: NAICS:  World Health Organization 923120  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/29/world/asia/pollution-health-china.html  
Title  Pollution May Be Diminishing Thinking Skills, Study in China Suggests: [Foreign Desk]  
Author  Ives, Mike  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.8  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Aug 30, 2018  
Section  A  

Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2096266296  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2096266296?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Aug 30, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-19  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 75 of 236 


California Sets Energy Goal: Zero Carbon: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Penn, Ivan.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]29 Aug 2018: B.1. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=California+Sets+Energy+Goal%3A+Zero+Carbon%3A+%5BBusiness%2FFinanci 08-29&volume=&issue=&spage=B.1&au=Penn%2C+Ivan&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
LOS ANGELES -- California took some of the most aggressive steps yet to counter the effects of climate change as legislators voted Tuesday to require that 100 percent of the state's electricity come from carbon-free sources. 
The bill gives the state until 2045 to meet the goal. California had already imposed a mandate to generate 50 percent of its electricity from renewable sources by 2030; the bill increased the amount to 60 percent. 
The move highlights California's determination to be a leader on climate issues. In May, state regulators revised the building code to require newly built homes to be equipped for solar power. 
The state's aggressiveness comes as the Trump administration is moving to loosen or abandon environmental regulations and promoting a revival of the coal industry. And it follows a year in which catastrophic wildfires that many attribute to climate change have been responsible for dozens of deaths in the state, destroyed homes and businesses and cost billions of dollars. 
"This is a pivotal moment for California, for the country and the world," said Michael Brune, the executive director of the Sierra Club. 
California joins Hawaii, which passed legislation in 2015 calling for 100 percent carbon-free electricity by 2045. Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York and Washington, D.C., are also considering such a mandate, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures. Maryland and Colorado had considered bills but have not passed the requirement. 
The California bill passed the State Assembly on Tuesday by a vote of 44 to 33. The Senate passed a version of the measure in May 2017. The two chambers still must agree on amendments, but it is expected to be made final by the close of the legislative session on Friday. 
Gov. Jerry Brown, a Democrat in his final months in office, has not weighed in on the bill but is expected to sign it. Its passage comes ahead of a Global Climate Summit next month in San Francisco, where he will serve as a co-chairman. 
The governor's own signature energy initiative, to create a single authority to manage the electric grid for most or all of the West, also awaits the legislature's action. The plan is meant to increase efficiencies across the region, lowering the cost of generation, and could give rise to a single entity that could apply clean-energy policies across more territory. 
In the days before the vote, the bill on carbon-free electricity got a prominent bipartisan push with separate letters to legislators from former Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, a Republican, and former Vice President Al Gore, a Democrat. 
The measure was put forward by State Senator Kevin de León, who is seeking to unseat Senator Dianne Feinstein, a fellow Democrat, in the November general election. "Because of the fires, because of the extreme drought, because of the anti-environmental edicts coming from this president, there's a huge ground swell of support," Mr. de León has said about the legislation, designated Senate Bill 100. 
Opponents said the mandate was an example of legislative overreaching -- poorly thought out, potentially costly and not provably achievable. "One fact you cannot dispute: this does increase the cost," said Bill Brough, a Republican assemblyman from Orange County. "You cannot dispute that this is going to be passed on to the ratepayers." 
The mandate for carbon-free electricity also faced strong criticism from investor-owned utilities, partly because they say it focused on only one source of greenhouse-gas emissions. In California, the transportation sector produces more than two-thirds of those emissions. 
"You need to make sure you're looking at the underlying cause," said Pedro J. Pizarro, president and chief executive of Edison International, the parent company of Southern California Edison, one of the country's largest investor-owned utilities. 
Edison and the state's two other investor-owned utilities, Pacific Gas and Electric Company and San Diego Gas and Electric Company, said the mandate could prove expensive for consumers. 
In 2016, California's investor-owned utilities used carbon-free sources to deliver almost 35 percent of their electricity to retail consumers. But Mr. Pizarro said that because solar and wind power were intermittent power sources, there remained a need for power plants burning fossil fuels, at least until energy storage became more affordable. 
"Natural gas will be part of the solution, for sure," he said. 
Environmentalists and proponents of solar and wind power say carbon-free sources have served as economic engines for California in addition to addressing electricity needs. 
"California embraces renewable energy for economic and job creation reasons as much as for environmental reasons," said Bernadette Del Chiaro, executive director of the California Solar and Storage Association, a trade group. 
And backers said even the latest milestone in the state's efforts left a long way to go. 
"Decarbonizing our grid is low-hanging fruit," Wendy Carrillo, a Democratic assemblywoman from Los Angeles, said before Tuesday's vote. "We need to make our cutting-edge innovation our standard. We have an opportunity to create amazing change in our state." 

Photograph 
A solar energy plant near Cholame, Calif. Legislators voted to require that all of California's electricity come from carbon-free sources, one of several moves by the state to counter climate change. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW BURTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) Copyright New York Times Company Aug 29, 2018 
Subject 	Solar energy; 
Wind power; 

Electricity; 
Clean technology; 

Bills; 

Emissions; 

Carbon; 
Electricity generation; 

Legislators; 
Environmental protection; 
Alternative energy sources; 

Renewable resources; 
Building codes; 
Energy policy; 
Climate change; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Natural gas 


Location 	California 
People 	de Leon, Kevin; Feinstein, Dianne; Pizarro, Pedro J 
URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/28/business/energy-environment/california-clean-energy.html 
Title 	California Sets Energy Goal: Zero Carbon: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Author 	Penn, Ivan 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	B.1 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Aug 29, 2018 
Section 	B 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	General Interest Periodicals--United States 
ISSN 	03624331 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	News 
ProQuest document ID  2095093770  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2095093770?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Aug 29, 2018  
Last updated  2019-06-28  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 76 of 236 


A Leader in the War on Poverty Opens a New Front: Pollution: [National Desk] 
Pierre-Louis, Kendra.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]25 Aug 2018: A.14. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=A+Leader+in+the+War+on+Poverty+Opens+a+New+Front%3A+Pollution%3A+ 08-25&volume=&issue=&spage=A.14&au=Pierre-Louis%2C+Kendra&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd: , our email newsletter. 
GREENSBORO, N.C. -- The air in the Shiloh Baptist Church was thick with the heat of human bodies. The crowd, a mix of black and white faces, filled the pews in what was ostensibly the black side of town, straining the capacity of this good-sized church. 
On the dais stood the Rev. Dr. William J. Barber II, draped in a black robe, a black vest and a cream stole emblazoned with the credo "Jesus was a poor man." Al Gore, the former vice president, sat behind him. 
Dr. Barber's message to the community members in the church last week would have been largely recognizable to civil rights leaders of generations past, addressing issues of poverty and racism. But he and Mr. Gore were here in Greensboro to focus on another concern that many in the audience believed was just as insidious: pollution from North Carolina's coal-powered electrical plants. 
"Jesus said love your neighbor," Dr. Barber told the crowd. "I don't care how many times you tell me you love me, if you put coal ash in my water you don't love me. Because if there was nothing wrong with the coal ash, then put it in the wealthy communities." 
Fifty years after the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. started a movement known as the Poor People's Campaign, Dr. Barber has been working to revive it. He is perhaps best known as the architect of the Forward Together Moral Movement protests in North Carolina that opposed voting-rights restrictions and helped defeat the Republican governor in 2016. Now he is making environmental justice, and climate change, a pillar of a modern-day war on poverty. 
Dr. Barber and Mr. Gore spent two days touring nearby towns, drawing attention to environmental issues and making it clear that voters could act on them come Election Day. Lower-income communities -- especially black, Hispanic and Native American ones -- tend to be more polluted and bear more of the burden of climate change than higher-income and white communities, experts say. 
Dr. Barber rejected the notion that these were partisan issues. "This is the real question, not if Democrats are going to get elected, not if Republicans are going to get elected, but if America is going to be America, she's going to have to address systemic racism, systemic poverty, ecological devastation, the war economy and militarism, and our false moral narrative of religious nationalism," he said. 
Mr. Gore, well known for his work on global warming, said the issues of coal pollution and climate change were linked. "Both are necessary byproducts of our addiction to fossil fuels," he said. 
The two men visited Belews Creek, a predominantly black community in a predominantly white county that resides in the shadow of the Belews Creek Steam Station, a coal-fired power plant. 
All coal plants generate coal ash, the hazardous powdery substance that remains after burning coal. Many plants, including the Belews Creek facility, store it on site, mixed with water in storage ponds. But a lawsuit filed in December by the Southern Environmental Law Center says that because the active storage pond at Belews Creek lacks a protective lining, it is seeping into the groundwater. 
The E.P.A. links the substances in coal ash -- including heavy metals like arsenic and lead -- to nervous-system problems, reproductive issues and cancer. Still, the agency last month overhauled Obama-era regulations on coal ash disposal, granting more authority to states and industry. Separately, the E.P.A. this week loosened rules on air pollution from coal plants and estimated the change would result in up to 1,400 premature deaths annually by 2030. 
"I think most people assume that when you live in the country that you would have clean air and water," said Danielle Bailey-Lash, who moved to Belews Creek in 2005 but left in 2015 after she learned she had brain cancer. She does not know whether coal pollution or other factors caused it. 
Belews Creek is a prime example of the kinds of communities threatened by coal ash pollution, said Lisa Evans, a lawyer for the environmental group Earthjustice, which is not involved in the suit. "Coal ash ponds are in rural areas, particularly in the Southeast. Those communities have less power and less of a voice," she said. 
"Those are the areas that do not have municipal water systems to filter and clean the water," Ms. Evans added. "When you contaminate groundwater in a rural area, that's their lifeline." 
The lawsuit says that Duke Energy, the plant's owner, is dumping untreated coal ash pollution directly into surface water at the Belews Creek plant, and that the coal ash pond is leaking into surface water and the connected groundwater. The plaintiffs include the environmental group Appalachian Voices North Carolina and the state and county branches of the N.A.A.C.P. 
A federal district judge last week denied Duke Energy's motion to dismiss the suit. 
Duke says its studies and outside experts agree there is no evidence that the Belews Creek facility is polluting nearby drinking water wells. "We've got good evidence that tells us that the drinking water wells remain very safe, and that the groundwater impacts around the basin are well-defined and well understood and not impacting the neighbors," said Paige Sheehan, a spokeswoman for the utility. 
Avner Vengosh, a professor of earth and ocean sciences at Duke University, said the situation was complicated. In his research, he has found evidence of coal ash contamination in surface water in North Carolina, but has not found contamination in the region's drinking wells. 
Generally, however, unlined coal ash ponds do leak into groundwater, according to a 2016 study published by Dr. Vengosh and his colleagues. And Dr. Vengosh said his team had not tested every drinking well in the area. "Are there wells that we have not studied that could potentially have been affected? Absolutely," he said. 
Human exposure to toxins generated by coal plants can also come from atmospheric pollution and from airborne particles that settle onto surfaces, Dr. Vengosh said. 
Leslie Bray Brewer, a pastor who grew up in Belews Creek, remembers what life was like in the late 1970s and early '80s, a few years after the plant opened. Coal ash "was everywhere -- the soil, the car, our roofs," she said. 
She said her children later suffered breathing problems. "Then we started to put two and two together that a lot of the neighbors were having these issues," she said. 
"There's actually people down there that have to bathe in bottled water," said David Hairston, a board member of Appalachian Voices and a native of the region. "That's how fearful they are." 
In 2014, a drainage pipe collapsed under a coal ash pond at Duke Energy's Dan River Steam Station, roughly 35 miles northeast of Belews Creek, spilling millions of gallons of sludge along 70 miles of the Dan River. It was the second-largest such disaster in the United States. 
Afterward, the state ordered Duke to close 32 coal ash ponds. The company's plan at Belews Creek is to drain the pond but leave the ash in place, filling the structure with soil and capping it with a weatherproof cover. Environmentalists want Duke to excavate the coal ash completely. 
Ms. Sheehan, the Duke spokeswoman, said excavation at Belews Creek would be risky and costly. The lawsuit "was filed by a number of critic organizations who want to burden people with excavation," she said. "Capping is supported by the science and the engineering." 
If North Carolina has a history of environmental problems, it also has a history of environmental protest. 
"Where did the environmental justice movement begin?" Mr. Gore asked after taking the lectern at Shiloh Baptist. "It began right here in North Carolina in 1982 in Warren County." 
He was referring to an E.P.A. plan at the time to situate a landfill, designed to hold 50,000 tons of soil contaminated with the chemicals known as PCBs, in a community that was 65 percent black. Residents led six weeks of primarily peaceful protests, including laying in the road to block trucks. 
It is not hard to draw connections to other protesters who put their bodies on the line. Less than a mile from the pulpit, a historic Woolworth's lunch counter is now part of a civil rights museum in Greensboro. A 1960 sit-in at the segregated counter, led by four black college students, helped catalyze a movement that desegregated restaurants across the South. 
Before they became famous for their protest, at least two of the group, which became known as the Greensboro Four, attended Shiloh Baptist. 
For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. 

Photograph 
Clockwise from top: The Rev. Dr. William J. Barber II, who says "ecological devastation" is a major concern for the nation's poor, at the Shiloh Baptist Church in Greensboro, 
N.C.; he and former Vice President Al Gore also spoke at a news conference in Walnut Cove, N.C., across the water from a coal-fired power plant accused of polluting; and Joyce 
Buffaloe, who sang at Shiloh Baptist. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TRAVIS DOVE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 
Copyright New York Times Company Aug 25, 2018 

Subject 	By products; 
Poverty; 
Coal-fired power plants; 
Climate change 


Location 	North Carolina; Dan River 
People 	Barber, William J; Gore, Albert Jr 
Company / organization 	Name: Duke Energy Corp 

NAICS: 221122 


URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/24/climate/coal-ash-pollution-poverty.html  
Title  A Leader in the War on Poverty Opens a New Front: Pollution: [National Desk]  
Author  Pierre-Louis, Kendra  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  

Pages  A.14  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Aug 25, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2092762373  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2092762373?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Aug 25, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-16  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 77 of 236 


E.P.A. Offers Lifeline to the Dirtiest Coal Plants: [National Desk] 
Lipton, Eric.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]25 Aug 2018: A.1. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=E.P.A.+Offers+Lifeline+to+the+Dirtiest+Coal+Plants%3A+%5BNational+Desk% 08-25&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Lipton%2C+Eric&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter. 
WASHINGTON -- One of the main advancements of the past half-century at coal-burning power plants has been the "scrubber," a clean-air device that played a major role in ending the acid-rain crisis of the 1970s and that removes millions of tons a year of a pollutant blamed for respiratory disease. 
However, the Trump administration's proposed rewrite of climate-change regulations could enable some of America's dirtiest remaining coal plants to be refurbished and keep running for years without adding scrubbers or other modern pollution controls. 
Industry lawyers and former federal officials say the policy shift is one of the most consequential pieces of the Environmental Protection Agency's proposal, made public this week, to replace the Obama-era Clean Power Plan, which was designed to slow the pace of climate change in part by encouraging the retirement of older coal plants and a shift toward greener energy sources. 
"This is a power plant life-extension rule masquerading as a climate rule," said Kate Konschnik, a Bush-era Department of Justice lawyer who handled lawsuits against coal-burning power plants, which she said would now become much harder to file. 
An E.P.A. spokesman, Michael Abboud, defended the policy change, saying in a statement it was designed to benefit the environment and intended "to further encourage efficiency improvements at existing power plants." 
Currently, about 30 percent of the nation's coal-burning power plant units do not have scrubbers, devices that use a cloud of fine water droplets, along with crushed limestone, to pull sulfur out of the plant's exhaust before it reaches the atmosphere. Another 22 percent of plants do not have advanced nitrogen oxide controls that limit smog. 
Many of these older plants benefited from a grandfathering provision in federal law that didn't require them to add advanced pollution controls unless they underwent major renovations. 
Under current rules, such major retrofits of old plants often come with a big demand: The owners must also spend hundreds of millions of dollars to upgrade the air-pollution equipment to the best available technology, including scrubbers. 
The proposed rule change would let older plants be updated with newer and more efficient working components like boiler feed pumps and steam turbine upgrades, potentially extending their operating lives for years, while allowing them to avoid the requirement for the updated pollution controls, which can cost hundreds of millions of dollars. 
The rules could benefit plants like the Gerald Gentleman Station in Sutherland, Neb., the state's largest power generating plant, which started operating in 1979. The plant lacks both scrubbers for sulfur oxides and what is known as selective catalytic reduction for nitrogen oxides. As of 2017, its two power units were emitting more than 21,000 tons of sulfur dioxide per year, according to E.P.A. data. 
The company intends to keep the plant operating by upgrading various critical pieces of its electricity generation equipment, but has estimated that installing the most modern pollution control devices would cost an estimated $1.5 billion. The new rule could create a clear path for the plant to upgrade without facing a giant air-pollution cleanup order. 
"This really should help clear up some of that uncertainty on the ability to do efficiency projects," said Joe Citta, environmental manager at Nebraska Public Power District, which runs the plant. "That should be helpful." 
Sulfur oxides are harmful to the human respiratory system, particularly for children, older people and people with asthma. They can also react with other contaminants to create so-called particulate matter, which can penetrate deeply into the lungs and cause additional health problems. 
The E.P.A. program at the center of this debate, called the New Source Review, is not well known to the public but it has had an enormous impact over the past two decades on air quality in the United States. The basic premise is that anytime a plant expands or becomes a "new source" of emissions, restrictions kick in. 
Since 1999, utility companies nationwide have been ordered to pay more than $100 million in fines and make more than $18.5 billion of improvements in air-pollution-control systems at about 112 power plants because of alleged violations of the New Source rule, according to an analysis of E.P.A. enforcement data by Ms. Konschnik, who now directs the Climate & Energy Program at Duke University. 
That enforcement effort has resulted in 2.8 million tons per year of combined reductions in sulfur oxides and nitrogen oxides. That reduction is greater than the combined remaining total, totaling 2.4 million tons, in emissions from the still-operating coal-burning power plants in the United States, many of which have modern emissions control systems after being forced by New Source Review or other E.P.A. or state rules to upgrade their systems. 
The E.P.A.'s proposed changes to the program are complicated. But in short, they would allow power plants that are installing more energy-efficient equipment, such as new boiler feed pumps, to skip the New Source Review process. 
It would achieve that by changing the way the plant's pollution is measured under the rule: Instead of considering a refurbished plant's annual emissions to decide whether it was polluting more, the rule would switch to hourly emissions. Typically, a refurbished plant does run more efficiently, meaning it pollutes less on a per-hour basis. But overhauls also enable plants to operate for more hours per year, meaning overall pollution on an annual basis may go up. 
The E.P.A. itself, in a legal notice filed this week as it announced its rewrite of the clean-air rules, said the changes meant that some power plants "may experience an increase in annual emissions due to increases in operation." That increase, it said, would be as a result of "the source ultimately not being subject to major NSR," or New Source Review. 
The new policy will almost certainly be challenged by environmental groups in court. They, along with some state-government officials, call the change a step backward for the Clean Air Act. 
"This is going to mean dirtier air and hurt Americans through a loophole built on a lie that pollution from these plants will not get worse," said John Walke, clean air director at the Natural Resources Defense Council. 
The coal and power plant industries have long been lobbying for changes like this. They argue the current rules discourage them from spending money to make older power plants operate more efficiently because it would also trigger hundreds of millions of dollars in demands for new pollution controls. 
"From a business perspective, this will be the most helpful to industry," said Brian H. Potts, a partner at Perkins Coie, a global law firm, who has defended more than a dozen utilities against E.P.A. New Source Review enforcement actions. "If this goes through, older plants that do not have advanced emission controls will more easily be able to extend their lives without putting on scrubbers," he said. 
Of course, there are owners who might still decide to retire some older coal plants, partly because natural gas prices are currently low enough that switching to a newer gas-fired plant makes economic sense. "This would be a much bigger deal if natural gas prices went up," Mr. Potts said. 
The change was advocated by William L. Wehrum, a former power-plant industry lawyer who is now in charge of air pollution policy at the E.P.A. and had unsuccessfully sought to make a similar change during the Bush administration, when he also worked at the agency. The agency this week said that its new approach would result in "cleaner, more efficient" power production and "tend to displace dirtier, less efficient units." 

Photograph 
The Gerald Gentleman Station in Sutherland, Neb., built in 1979, lacks both "scrubbers" to remove sulfur oxide from its exhaust and equipment to reduce the polluting nitrogen oxides. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NEBRASKA PUBLIC POWER DISTRICT) (A15) Copyright New York Times Company Aug 25, 2018 
Subject 	Emissions control; 
Enforcement; 

Air pollution; 

Sulfur; 
Coal-fired power plants; 
Natural gas prices; 
Climate change; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Nitrogen 


Location 	United States--US; Nebraska 
Company / organization 	Name: Department of Justice 

NAICS: 922130; 

Name: Citta 

NAICS: 813211; 

Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA NAICS: 924110; 
Name: Natural Resources Defense Council NAICS: 813312; 
Name: Nebraska Public Power District NAICS: 221122; 
Name: Duke University NAICS: 611310; 
Name: Perkins Coie LLP NAICS: 541110 
URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/24/climate/epa-coal-power-scrubbers.html 
Title 	E.P.A. Offers Lifeline to the Dirtiest Coal Plants: [National Desk] 
Author  Lipton, Eric  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.1  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Aug 25, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2092761486  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2092761486?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Aug 25, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-16  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 78 of 236 


Here to Help; Answering Your Burning Questions on Climate Change: [Foreign Desk] 
Plumer, Brad; Fountain, Henry.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]24 Aug 2018: A.3. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Here+to+Help%3B+Answering+Your+Burning+Questions+on+Climate+Change% 08-24&volume=&issue=&spage=A.3&au=Plumer%2C+Brad%3BFountain%2C+Henry&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Welcome to the Climate Fwd: newsletter. The New York Times climate team emails readers once a week with stories and insights about climate change. Sign up here to get it in your inbox. 
Before getting to the bigger-picture questions, it's been a busy week in coal news. Here's what happened: 
We learned early details of the Trump administration's plan to overhaul some Obama-era climate change regulations. And on Monday, the acting head of the Environmental Protection Agency signed a proposal to weaken regulation of coal-fired power plants. The E.P.A.'s own numbers showed how this could lead to as many as 1,400 premature deaths a year by 2030. 
Then, President Trump had a rally Tuesday night in West Virginia, where he told supporters, "We're putting our great coal miners back to work." We fact-checked his claims about coal. And yet, as we wrote today, all this may help a few coal plants in the short term -- but still won't save the coal industry. 
We also profiled the former industry lawyer who is leading the E.P.A.'s air office, and who, before that, spent the better part of a decade fighting his current employer over air pollution rules. 
This all raises the question ... 
What do Trump's pollution rules mean for climate change? 
By Brad Plumer 
The Trump administration has been particularly busy this August rolling out its plans to weaken federal climate policies. 
First, there was the proposal early in the month to prevent fuel-economy standards for cars and light trucks from continuing to get stricter after 2021. 
Then, this week, the Environmental Protection Agency announced its intention to replace the Obama-era Clean Power Plan, a sweeping program aimed at pushing states away from coal and toward cleaner sources of electricity, with a less-stringent rule that would only encourage coal plants to make modest efficiency upgrades and allow states to regulate lightly. 
From a climate perspective, these two moves together could have a sizable impact if they're finalized. Weaker vehicle rules could add an extra 28 million to 83 million metric tons of carbon dioxide to the atmosphere in 2030 alone, according to a Rhodium Group analysis. The proposal to relax rules for coal plants would add another 47 million to 61 million tons of CO2 that same year, according to the E.P.A.'s own numbers. 
To put that in context: At the high end, that's the climate equivalent of putting an extra 31 million cars on the road. It's more carbon dioxide than many midsize nations like Belgium or Greece put out in an entire year. And it comes at a time when global emissions are still rising, while scientists say they need to be falling rapidly to avoid the worst impacts of global warming. 
That said, it's not yet certain that this higher emissions scenario will come to pass, and there are a few things we'll be watching closely in the months ahead. 
First, it's worth noting that the Trump administration's proposals are far from finalized and, like all regulations, are certain to lead to fierce court battles. (Note that the Obama-era Clean Power Plan never actually took effect because it is still tied up in court.) 
Lately, federal courts have been striking down a number of the administration's regulatory moves. California plans to sue over the vehicle rollbacks, arguing that the proposal constrains the state's longstanding authority to set its own car standards. And environmentalists are likely to challenge a section of the coal rule that would exempt plants from certain pollution controls if they invest in upgrades. 
We'll also be watching what's happening in the fast-changing electricity sector, which accounts for one-third of the nation's carbon emissions. The Trump administration's power plant proposal could plausibly give a second life to some coal plants and slow the transition toward cleaner energy. But how this plays out will depend on a complex mix of factors, like state-level policies, energy prices and the growth of wind and solar power. (Much will also depend on whether the Energy Department decides to pursue a separate, highly contentious bailout of struggling coal plants.) 
Which is all to say that this story is still in flux and even the most careful predictions about what different policies mean for global warming could change over time. Stay tuned. 
Without ice, Earth's future looks (literally) shaky 
By Henry Fountain 
Send us your questions about climate change by using the form at the bottom of our Climate Q. and A. This week's question comes from a reader named Scott: 
When the last ice age retreated, the Earth's crust sprang back up again as the weight of the ice was pressing down no more. Question: Would the melting of the ice caps cause the Earth's crust to shift and cause more quakes or volcanic activity? 
Here's another reason to be concerned about global warming: It might lead to more earthquakes, at least near the poles. 
In addition to the other problems that the eventual melting of the thick ice sheets in Greenland and Antarctica would create (soaring sea levels centuries from now, for one thing), it would remove a huge weight from the two land masses and affect stresses in the faults beneath them. 
"I would expect it," said Göran Ekström, a geophysicist at Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, part of Columbia University, of the possibility that earthquakes might result. "That's a very large stress change." 
There are indications that this happened in the past, as the large ice sheets that covered much of the Northern Hemisphere and Antarctica during the last ice age began to retreat 12,000 years ago and the land began to rise (a process called postglacial rebound, which continues today). Scientists have found evidence in northern Scandinavia of large faults that ruptured after the ice retreated. 
Much more recently, relatively small changes in mass at or near the Earth's surface have been thought to cause quakes. Several earthquakes in the 1970s and 1980s in a natural gas field in Uzbekistan, for instance, were believed to be the result of removing so much gas by drilling operations. And some scientists have linked a strong earthquake that struck Sichuan Province in China in 2008 to the filling of a reservoir behind a new dam. 
As for volcanoes, Dr. Ekström was less certain what the impact would be. There are indications, for example, that higher sea levels in the ancient past reduced volcanism at midocean ridges, as the extra weight of water acted to constrain molten rock, or magma. So loss of the ice sheets might be expected to lead to increased volcanic activity on the newly exposed land. "To the extent that a load should affect the magma bodies underground, there should be a connection," Dr. Ekström said. 
We'd love your feedback on this newsletter. Please email thoughts and suggestions to climateteam@nytimes.com . 
If you like what we're doing, please spread the word and send this to your friends. You can sign up here to get our newsletter delivered to your inbox each week. 
And be sure to check out our full assortment of free newsletters from The Times. 
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 
Copyright New York Times Company Aug 24, 2018 
Subject 	Fault lines; 
Emissions; 

Environmental policy; 
Climate change; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Carbon; 
Newsletters; 
Global warming; 
Earthquakes; 
Coal-fired power plants; 
Environmental protection 


Location Uzbekistan; Greenland; West Virginia; Greece; New York; Scandinavia; China; California; 

Belgium; Antarctica; Northern Hemisphere 


People  Trump, Donald J  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 924110;  
Name: NAICS:  New York Times Co 511110, 511120, 515112, 515120;  
Name: NAICS:  Columbia University 611310  

URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/22/climate/trump-coal-car-regulations-climate-change.html 
Title 	Here to Help; Answering Your Burning Questions on Climate Change: [Foreign Desk] 
Author  Plumer, Brad; Fountain, Henry  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.3  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Aug 24, 2018  
column  Climate Fwd:  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2093200358  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2093200358?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Aug 24, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-16  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 79 of 236 


A Black and Sooty Mess: [Editorial] 
New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]24 Aug 2018: A.22. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=A+Black+and+Sooty+Mess%3A+%5BEditorial%5D&title=New+York+Times& 08-24&volume=&issue=&spage=A.22&au=&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Casting a lifeline to the sinking coal industry and its shrinking work force, the Trump administration announced on Tuesday a plan to weaken regulations of coal-fired power plants that President Barack Obama had put in place as part of an effort to reduce America's emissions of planet-warming gases. The plan is wrongheaded on every level. 
It favors an old, dirty fuel and does nothing to accelerate the push toward the cleaner, renewable fuels on whose development the world is depending for real progress against global warming. It offers another false promise to the coal miners, whose industry is threatened not by some sinister "war on coal," as President Trump would have it, but by market forces, including plentiful supplies of cleaner natural gas. And it is another sign -- the latest of many -- that the president has no remorse for abdicating the leadership America once claimed in the struggle against climate change. 
For good measure, the proposal would also weaken provisions in the clean air laws designed to regulate pollutants like smog and soot and, in so doing, cause as many as 1,400 additional premature deaths annually by 2030, as well as many thousands of respiratory infections because of increases in fine particulate matter linked to heart and lung disease. 
The Obama plan, finalized in 2015, was designed to help drive down carbon dioxide emissions from power plants by 32 percent below 2005 levels by 2030, and was a crucial component of Mr. Obama's pledge at the Paris climate summit meeting in 2015 to reduce America's overall greenhouse gas emissions by more than one-quarter below 2005 levels by 2025. To that end, it set firm targets for each state, but gave those states wide latitude in deciding how to reach them -- improving in energy efficiency, switching from dirty coal to cleaner natural gas, building wind farms, emissions trading among the states. The targets and methods for reaching them were worked out in lengthy, detailed consultation with the states to avoid a one-size-fits-all approach. 
The Trump plan, by contrast, would not set hard targets and would limit states to basically a single solution, a so-called "inside the fence line" measure aimed solely at improving the efficiency of existing plants. This could provide incentives for some states to keep aging coal-fired plants running, adding millions of tons of pollutants to the atmosphere each year. 
But will the Trump plan really help the coal miners? Maybe at the margins, and therein lies the injustice to the miners. Mr. Obama's Clean Power Plan appeared at a propitious moment, acting as a kind of accelerant to the big utilities that were already moving away from coal for reasons of economy and efficiency. According to the latest figures from the Energy Information Administration and the companies themselves, carbon dioxide emissions from power plants have already dropped between 25 percent and 28 percent below 2005 levels -- 12 years ahead of the Obama 2030 target date. Improvements in energy efficiency across the economy as a whole have had a lot to do with that, but so has the switch to natural gas and renewables and the consequent retirement of hundreds of aging, inefficient coal plants. More than 200 such plants, about 40 percent of the coal plants in America, have been retired since 2010 or are scheduled to retire. Coal jobs have fallen from nearly 180,000 in 1985 to around 50,000 today. 
Given that landscape, it is hard not to sympathize with the coal miners, their families and their communities. But the right response lies in finding ways to train these workers for a new energy economy, which the Trump administration has hardly talked about. They are not served by the kind of bizarre pep talk Mr. Trump delivered at a rally in West Virginia on Tuesday night, when he said that coal was the only energy source that could survive a war. "We love clean, beautiful West Virginia coal," he said. "And you know, that's indestructible stuff. In times of war, in times of conflict, you can blow up those windmills, they fall down real quick. You can blow up those pipelines, they go like this," he said, making a hand gesture. "You could do a lot of things to those solar panels, but you know what you can't hurt? Coal." 
A long legal battle lies ahead. The Obama plan is already hung up in the courts. The Trump substitute will get there eventually. At the heart of the fight will be differing interpretations of the government's duties under the Clean Air Act, which the Obama administration construed expansively (and correctly in our view) to allow a variety of weapons to be deployed against carbon dioxide, and the Trump administration's much more cramped view, which would leave us stuck with an outdated energy system. 
In the end, the real value of the Obama plan lay not so much in setting numerical targets as in its attempt to win widespread acceptance of a common problem, the very real threat from the carbon pollution that's driving climate change. Mr. Obama knew well that his was but one step toward decarbonizing the world economy, and that further incentives and pressures would be required. Mr. Trump's defense of the status quo sends a different and disheartening signal. 
Credit: THE EDITORIAL BOARD 

Illustration 
DRAWING (DRAWING BY KELSEY WROTEN) Copyright New York Times Company Aug 24, 2018 
Subject Editorials; Pollutants; 
Gases; Greenhouse gases; Clean technology; Emissions; Environmental regulations; Carbon dioxide; Regulatory reform; Global warming; Air pollution; Energy efficiency; Coal-fired power plants; Pollution control; Emission standards; Energy policy; Climate change; Industrial plant emissions; Natural gas  
Location  United States--US  
People  Trump, Donald J; Obama, Barack  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Energy Information Administration 926130  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/22/opinion/editorials/coal-trump-climate-change.html  
Title  A Black and Sooty Mess: [Editorial]  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.22  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Aug 24, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  2092331993  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2092331993?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Aug 24, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-16  
Database  Global Newsstream  


document 80 of 236 


Trump Put a Low Cost on Carbon Emissions. Here's Why It Matters.: [National Desk] 
Plumer, Brad.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]24 Aug 2018: A.16. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Trump+Put+a+Low+Cost+on+Carbon+Emissions.+Here%27s+Why+It+Matters 08-24&volume=&issue=&spage=A.16&au=Plumer%2C+Brad&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd: , our email newsletter. 
WASHINGTON -- How much economic damage will global warming cause? That's one of the key questions embedded in the Trump administration's recent proposals to weaken Obama-era regulations on greenhouse gas emissions from both vehicles and power plants. 
When federal agencies calculate the costs and benefits of climate regulations, they use a figure called the "social cost of carbon," an estimate of the harm caused by releasing more carbon dioxide into the atmosphere and increasing global warming. 
In its rollback proposals, the Trump administration argued that each ton of carbon dioxide emitted by a car or a coal plant in 2020 would only cause around $1 to $7 in economic damages. That's far lower than the Obama administration's central estimate, which, after adjusting for inflation, argued that same ton of carbon dioxide would cause roughly $50 in total damages. 
That change will make a big difference for the cost-benefit analyses that agencies are required to conduct for new rules. If the Trump administration can successfully claim that carbon dioxide causes relatively little harm to the economy, then it can more easily justify moves like replacing the Clean Power Plan, an ambitious Obama-era program to cut pollution from coal plants, with a less-stringent rule. 
So how did the Trump administration conclude that global warming will be much less costly than the Obama administration assumed? 
First, the Environmental Protection Agency focused solely on damages from climate change that would occur within the borders of the United States rather than across the entire globe. Second, they used calculations that put less weight on the harm climate change could inflict on future generations. 
Trump officials contend that their carbon approach better reflects the way the government has traditionally done cost-benefit analyses. Critics argue that this approach is inappropriate for global, multigenerational problems like climate change, and that newer research suggests the social cost of carbon may be even higher than the Obama administration estimated, not much lower. 
Ultimately, the courts could decide which view prevails. "This will be part of the legal challenges to these regulatory rollbacks," said Richard L. Revesz, an expert in environmental law at New York University. "The reasons for why the Trump administration picked these numbers for the social cost of carbon are going to be scrutinized." 
Tallying the costs of climate change 
Predicting the costs of climate change is a maddeningly complex task, one that has bedeviled economists for years. They have to grapple with uncertainty around population growth, future levels of emissions, the effect of those emissions on the Earth's climate and the economic turmoil that higher temperatures could create. 
In 2009, the Obama administration brought 12 federal agencies together to hash out a best estimate of the social cost of carbon. They based their answer on three widely used academic models that tried to quantify the harm to things like human health and coastal property as heat waves increased and sea-levels rose. 
These models produce a wide range of estimates. But in 2016, the Obama administration recommended that federal agencies use a central estimate that, in current dollars, pegged the damage from a ton of carbon dioxide emitted in 2020 at around $50 per ton, rising over time. 
At the time, some researchers and environmentalists criticized the Obama number for being incomplete. It did not, for example, fully account for many plausible climate impacts like damage from increased wildfires or the loss of diverse ecosystems. In one survey of climate economists from 2015, 51 percent of respondents said the number was probably too low. Only 9 percent said it was probably too high. 
The Trump administration's new numbers 
When President Trump came to office, he disbanded the interagency team working on this issue. Instead, the E.P.A. under Scott Pruitt came up with its own "interim" estimate of the social cost of carbon. 
First, the E.P.A. took the Obama-era models and focused solely on damages that occurred within the borders of the United States, rather than looking at harm to other countries as well. That change alone reduced the social cost of carbon estimate to around $7 per ton. 
The reasoning was simple: If Americans are paying the cost of these rules to mitigate climate change, then only benefits that accrue to Americans themselves should be counted. 
Critics counter that this approach overlooks two key points. First, many of those climate impacts in other countries could indirectly hurt the United States, say, by roiling the global economy or by increasing the number of refugees. Second, climate change can only be solved by all countries working together. If the United States refused to consider the impacts of its emissions on other countries, other countries could respond in kind. 
"The United States is only 14 percent of global emissions, which means that 86 percent of the damages we face will be caused by emissions from other countries," said Richard 
G. Newell, president of Resources for the Future, an environmental economics think tank. "If we took this domestic-only approach to its logical conclusion, that means other countries should not worry about their impacts on us." 
Next, the E.P.A. lowered its estimate of the social cost of carbon further by rethinking how it used an economic concept known as the discount rate. 
The discount rate is how economists value costs and benefits across time. People tend to value a dollar today more than a dollar in the future (a dollar today could be invested in the stock market and gain value, for example). The question is how much that future dollar should be discounted. A higher discount rate implies we shouldn't pay as much today to avoid harms far in the future, which, in turn, produces a lower social cost of carbon. 
The federal government has long recommended discount rates of 3 percent and 7 percent for valuing costs and benefits across a single generation. But some economists have argued that higher rates are inappropriate for thinking about long-range problems like global warming, where today's emissions can have impacts, like melting ice sheets, that reverberate for centuries. 
"If you use a rate above 5 percent, you're essentially saying that we shouldn't worry today about anything that happens 100 years from now," said Maureen Cropper, an economist at the University of Maryland. 
The Obama administration opted for lower rates of 2.5 percent, 3 percent, and 5 percent when thinking about climate change. But the Trump administration has returned to the practice of using 3 percent and 7 percent. That higher rate further reduces the social cost of carbon down to $1 per ton. 
Arguing in court 
The Trump administration may not be finished adjusting the social cost of carbon. In earlier proposals, the E.P.A. said "improved domestic estimates" could be developed in the future. 
Most experts agree that the social cost of carbon can be improved by taking into account newer scientific and economic research. "There's been an explosion of research on the impacts of climate change in recent years, and it hasn't been fully reflected in the estimates," said Michael Greenstone, an economist at the University of Chicago who helped craft the Obama administration's original numbers. 
Dr. Greenstone was an author of a recent paper that looked more carefully at projected heat deaths from global warming as well as the costs of adapting to higher temperatures, such as buying more air-conditioners. That study concluded that these new estimates could add significantly to the social cost of carbon. 
Yet some influential conservative groups, like the Heritage Foundation, have made the opposite case: that the Obama numbers were too high, emphasizing studies that suggest a slower rate of future warming and arguing that it is misguided to focus on damages that will occur centuries from now, when the American economy may look radically different. 
Whatever number the Trump administration ultimately comes up with, they will have to defend it in court. Once the proposed rollbacks of vehicle and power plant rules are finalized, environmental groups and states like California plan to sue, including on the process that the administration used to tally costs and benefits. 
"Typically, an agency gets some latitude to set standards a bit more or less stringently," said Jody Freeman, director of the environmental law program at Harvard Law School. "But if you can show the agency to be glaringly wrong in its analysis -- they ignore obvious counterarguments, they cherry-pick the data to support their outcome, they make numbers up -- you can get a court to strike the standards down." 
For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. 

Photograph 
A mound of coal at Big Sandy Power Plant near Cattletsburg, Ky., and a stream of traffic on the Golden Gate Bridge. Calculating how much economic damage global warming will cause isn't easy. But the answer determines how easily the government can roll back regulations. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LUKE SHARRETT/GETTY IMAGES; JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) Copyright New York Times Company Aug 24, 2018 
Subject 	Discount rates; 
Emissions; 

Social costs; 

Climate change 


Location 	New York; United States--US; California 
People 	Trump, Donald J; Pruitt, Scott 
Company / organization 	Name: Twitter Inc 

NAICS: 519130; 

Name: Harvard Law School NAICS: 611310; 
Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA NAICS: 924110; 
Name: University of Chicago NAICS: 611310; 
Name: New York University  
NAICS: 611310;  
Name: University of Maryland  
NAICS: 611310;  
Name: Heritage Foundation  
NAICS: 541720  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/23/climate/social-cost-carbon.html  
Title  Trump Put a Low Cost on Carbon Emissions. Here's Why It Matters.: [National Desk]  
Author  Plumer, Brad  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.16  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Aug 24, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2092328481  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2092328481?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Aug 24, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-16  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 81 of 236 


A Climate Reckoning for Australia: [Editorial] 
New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]23 Aug 2018: A.24. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=A+Climate+Reckoning+for+Australia%3A+%5BEditorial%5D&title=New+York 08-23&volume=&issue=&spage=A.24&au=&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Australia should be a global leader in battling climate change. The vast nation-continent has an abundance of potential solar and tidal power, while the bleaching of the spectacular Great Barrier Reef by warming waters and a record drought offers ample evidence of what climate change can wreak. In advance of a critical vote on a new energy bill, Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull wisely noted that it is well known "what happens when you allow ideology and idiocy to take charge of energy policy." 
Yet right after saying that, Mr. Turnbull, under pressure from rebellious conservatives in his party, abandoned his "National Energy Guarantee" and its modest effort to reduce energy emissions. With that, he appeared to confirm Australia as a poster child for something completely different, as reported by Damien Cave in The Times on Tuesday: a political inability to enact sorely needed energy legislation because of acute partisanship on addressing climate change and the influence of a coal industry that accounts for more than a third of all global coal exports. 
Though recent Australian governments have been reasonably progressive on many of the issues that have tested other democracies, such as gun control, health care and wages, and Mr. Turnbull's achievements include legalizing same-sex marriage, the bitter divisions over climate change have led to the fall of two prime ministers in the past decade. By jettisoning his energy bill, Mr. Turnbull narrowly escaped becoming the third, at least for now. 
The volatility, Mr. Cave wrote, is explained at least in part by ideological ties to coal and by its enormous lobbying machine. The result is that any mention of emissions control, or even well-established climate science, prompts a violent allergic reaction on the right. That is what Mr. Turnbull referred to as "ideology and idiocy," before he fell prey to its power. 
The description is utterly apt, for Australia as it is for the United States, where President Trump has rashly pulled the United States out of the Paris climate accord and has maliciously undercut critical environmental regulations. On Tuesday, Andrew Wheeler, the acting administrator of Mr. Trump's Environmental Protection Agency, announced a plan to prop up coal-burning plants that would, by the agency's own reckoning, lead to hundreds of additional deaths a year from respiratory diseases. 
Australia, at least, has not pulled out of the Paris agreement -- though America's withdrawal is cited by Australian conservatives as an argument against setting emissions targets -- and it remains committed to reduce energy emission levels in 2030 to 26 percent below those of 2005. Australian businesses, moreover, are clamoring for a consistent energy policy, and one recent poll found that 59 percent of Australians say steps should be taken against global warming even if they are costly. 
Ideology and idiocy, of course, are not limited to climate policy or to any country. But it is especially dismaying when science-denying hacks and self-serving industries block action that is in the obvious and urgent interest of all humanity. That should not be happening in Australia. 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion) , and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter . 
Credit: THE EDITORIAL BOARD 

Photograph 
The Loy Yang power station, a coal-fired thermal complex built in the 1980s, east of Melbourne, Australia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIAN SMITH/EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK) Copyright New York Times Company Aug 23, 2018 
Subject 	Editorials; 

Ideology; 
Emissions control; 
Political leadership; 
Global warming; 
Firearm laws & regulations; 

Environmental policy; 
Energy policy; 
Climate change; 
Coal 


Location 	Great Barrier Reef; United States--US; Australia; Melbourne Victoria Australia 
People 	Trump, Donald J; Turnbull, Malcolm 
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/21/opinion/australia-climate-change-malcolm-turnbull.html  
Title  A Climate Reckoning for Australia: [Editorial]  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.24  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Aug 23, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  2091538767  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2091538767?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Aug 23, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-16  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 82 of 236 


In the Air Everywhere You Go, And Taking Weeks Off Your Life: [National Desk] 
Sengupta, Somini.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]23 Aug 2018: A.10. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=In+the+Air+Everywhere+You+Go%2C+And+Taking+Weeks+Off+Your+Life%3A 08-23&volume=&issue=&spage=A.10&au=Sengupta%2C+Somini&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd: , our email newsletter. 
Air pollution is shaving months -- and in some cases more than a year -- off your life expectancy, depending on where you live, according to a study published Wednesday. 
Worldwide, outdoor air pollution reduces the average life expectancy at birth by one year. The effect is much more pronounced in some countries: It cuts the average Egyptian's 

life span by 1.9 years and the average Indian's by 1.5 years. In Russia, it's around nine months. 
For the United States, it's less, currently reducing the life expectancy of an American born today by a little more than four months on average. 
Those findings come as the Trump administration is proposing a loosening of pollution controls from coal-fired power plants. 
The administration proposal, issued by the Environmental Protection Agency this week, would replace the Obama-era Clean Power Plan, which aimed to steer the energy sector 

away from coal and toward cleaner energy sources. By the E.P.A.'s own calculations, the Trump administration's plan could lead to up to 1,400 premature deaths annually. 

The study, in the journal Environmental Science & Technology Letters, took into account measurements of outdoor, or ambient, air pollution. It gathered data from previous 
studies that used satellites and ground-based pollution meters to calculate levels of ambient fine particulate matter, known as PM 2.5. 
That kind of pollutant can come from a variety of sources, including coal-fired power plants, truck tailpipes, wildfires and dust storms. The researchers then calculated the 

impact of that pollution on the life span of a person born today. 

Joshua Apte, an engineering professor at the University of Texas at Austin and the lead author of the study, called that kind of particulate matter "the single most important 
environmental pollutant for ill health and death." 
The sources of PM 2.5 pollution and greenhouse gas emissions are often "tightly linked," Dr. Apte added, meaning that moving to cleaner sources of energy can also deliver 

quick dividends for public health. 

"For example, more efficient cars or cleaner electricity directly benefit both climate and health," Dr. Apte said by email. "Indeed, the near- and long-term health benefits of 
cleaner and more efficient energy use are one of the best co-benefits of tackling climate change, as we will lead healthier and longer lives." 
Dr. Apte's team found that exposure to indoor air pollution -- for example, cooking with wood, charcoal, or animal dung -- can also be devastating. In South Asia, for instance, it 

reduces life expectancy by an additional 1.2 years. 

Indoor air pollution levels were calculated by taking a limited set of actual indoor air pollution data and extrapolating it based on what fuels people use in their kitchens in 
different countries. 
The damaging impact of air pollution undercuts the overall progress that the world has made in raising life expectancy in the past decades. The global average is 72 today, 

about 20 years longer than in 1960. Improved access to health care has been a major factor in that change. 
Indoor and outdoor air pollution together are directly responsible for one in nine deaths worldwide, according to estimates by the World Health Organization. 
For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. 
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 


Photograph 
A power plant in Cheshire, Ohio. Air pollution from coal plants, wood stoves, tailpipes and other sources shortens life spans by a few months, and sometimes years. 
(PHOTOGRAPH BY MADDIE MCGARVEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 
Copyright New York Times Company Aug 23, 2018 

Subject 	Pollutants; Life expectancy; Air pollution; Coal-fired power plants; Outdoor air quality; Energy industry; Climate change 
Location  Russia; New York; United States--US; Ohio; South Asia  
Company / organization  Name: New York Times Co  
NAICS: 511110, 511120, 515112, 515120;  
Name: Twitter Inc  
NAICS: 519130;  
Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS: 924110;  
Name: University of Texas  
NAICS: 611310;  
Name: World Health Organization  
NAICS: 923120  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/22/climate/air-pollution-deaths.html  
Title  In the Air Everywhere You Go, And Taking Weeks Off Your Life: [National Desk]  
Author  Sengupta, Somini  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.10  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Aug 23, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2091537768  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2091537768?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Aug 23, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-16  

Database Global Newsstream 
document 83 of 236 


Another Step Backward for the Climate: [Op-Ed] 
Bordoff, Jason.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]23 Aug 2018: A.25. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Another+Step+Backward+for+the+Climate%3A+%5BOp­Ed%5D&title=New+York+Times&issn=03624331&date=2018-08­23&volume=&issue=&spage=A.25&au=Bordoff%2C+Jason&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
It has been a bad month for the fight against climate change. Amid heat waves, wildfires, droughts and Arctic ice melt, President Trump has taken aim at the two central pillars of his predecessor's ambitious efforts to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. After proposing in early August to freeze a scheduled increase in fuel economy standards for cars and light trucks, the Trump administration on Tuesday said it would seek to significantly weaken the Obama-era Clean Power Plan, aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions from coal-fired power plants. 
Those two economic sectors -- transportation and electricity production -- are the biggest contributors to greenhouse gas emissions in the United States, accounting for 56 percent of the total. 
In taking on the Clean Power Plan, Mr. Trump says he wants to save coal, but the reality is that coal is not coming back. Market forces conspire against it. Even without any policy, the economic imperatives driving the transition to cleaner fuels are expected by 2030 to reduce carbon dioxide emissions in the power sector by 33 percent of their 2005 levels, according to the Environmental Protection Agency. With the Obama plan, the reduction would be 36 percent; with the Trump administration's new Affordable Clean Energy Rule, it would be 33 to 34 percent. 
Coal's decline is being driven far less by government regulation than by cheap natural gas prices and the falling costs of renewable energy. Therefore, scrapping President Barack Obama's Clean Power Plan can't save coal -- although the Trump administration's misguided plan to subsidize uncompetitive coal plants could, at least in the short term. 
So why does this proposed rollback of power sector climate regulations matter if it won't change the carbon emissions trajectory much? 
First, firm policy direction from the government provides investors and utilities with certainty about the investment outlook and ensures emissions reductions even if the market shifts. Just as few predicted the collapse in natural gas prices a decade ago, there is a wide range of uncertainty about what energy prices will look like in the future. 
The Energy Information Administration projects that market forces alone will lead in 2030 to power sector emissions 28 percent below their 2005 level. This reflects the agency's assumptions that natural gas prices will rise roughly 50 percent from their current levels and that improvements in renewable and electricity storage technologies will proceed conservatively. 
By contrast, the Rhodium Group, an independent research firm, assumes in its baseline scenario that today's low natural gas prices will persist and that renewable costs will continue to fall at their recent pace, and finds that power sector emissions will be 35 percent lower in 2030. 
Second, the right way to assess whether a policy makes sense is not just to look at its emissions impacts but also to compare its costs with its benefits. Even by the current E.P.A.'s own analysis, which makes assumptions that play down the climate benefits and increase the implementation costs, the Clean Power Plan delivered far more net benefits for the American people than the proposed replacement. That is because reducing coal use in the power sector not only delivers carbon emission reductions but also lower levels of local pollutants like particulate matter. 
Third, and most important, even though the Clean Power Plan fell far short of the emission reductions needed to avoid severe climate change impacts, it was a starting point to clean up the power sector. It would send investment signals and provide a foundation for deeper reductions in carbon dioxide emissions to meet the globally agreed upon target of limiting temperature rise to well below two degrees Celsius, or 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit. 
For instance, a carbon tax starting at $50 per ton (which is roughly the Obama administration's estimate of the cost of harm from carbon emissions) would result in power sector emission reductions in 2030 relative to 2005 that are roughly twice what they would be under the Clean Power Plan, according to an analysis I helped to prepare for the Center on Global Energy Policy at Columbia University. 
Neutering the Clean Power Plan is a major step backward. But what's most important to remember is that even if a future president puts back in place Mr. Obama's climate policies, more comprehensive and stringent policies are still needed to deal with the rising threats of climate change that we see all around us. That reality is understood by the American public and increasingly even among oil companies and some Republicans who have come out in favor of a carbon tax. 
The damage done by the Trump administration's reversal of Mr. Obama's climate policies is less a sharp rise in carbon emissions than it is the loss of American leadership and missed opportunity to save future generations from climate change's severe impacts. 
Jason Bordoff (@JasonBordoff), a former special assistant to President Barack Obama, is a professor of professional practice in international and public affairs and the founding director of the Center on Global Energy Policy at Columbia University. 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion) , and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter . 
Copyright New York Times Company Aug 23, 2018 
Subject  Greenhouse gases; Clean technology; Emissions; Carbon dioxide; Environmental tax; Presidents; Costs; Coal-fired power plants; Natural gas prices; Environmental policy; Energy policy; Climate change; Industrial plant emissions  
Location  United States--US  
People  Trump, Donald J  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 924110;  
Name: NAICS:  Energy Information Administration 926130  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/22/opinion/trump-climate-emissions-backward.html  
Title  Another Step Backward for the Climate: [Op-Ed]  
Author  Bordoff, Jason  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.25  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Aug 23, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  2091536807  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2091536807?accountid=14902  

Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Aug 23, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-16  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 84 of 236 


Trump Wants to Help Coal, but It Might Be Past Saving: [National Desk] 
Plumer, Brad.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]23 Aug 2018: A.10. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Trump+Wants+to+Help+Coal%2C+but+It+Might+Be+Past+Saving%3A+%5BNa 08-23&volume=&issue=&spage=A.10&au=Plumer%2C+Brad&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd: , our email newsletter. 
WASHINGTON -- America's ailing coal industry was buoyed on Tuesday when the Environmental Protection Agency unveiled a proposal to relax pollution regulations on coal-fired power plants. President Trump traveled to West Virginia to tout the planned measure, telling supporters, "We're putting our great coal miners back to work." 
Yet the reality on the ground for the nation's coal industry remains bleak. Even the Trump administration's own numbers suggest that its latest proposal won't reverse the sharp decline of coal power, which has been crushed by competition from cheaper natural gas and renewable energy over the past decade. 
More than 200 coal plants have shut down since 2010, and another 40 plants have announced they will close in the years ahead, with virtually no new coal plants being built today. 
At best, if finalized, the E.P.A.'s newest rollback could help a small number of those endangered coal plants stave off retirement for a bit longer, albeit at the expense of increased air pollution. But even in that scenario, the agency's own analysis showed, coal power would still decline by 20 percent between now and 2030 and coal mining would drop by one-third. 
[The E.P.A. said the new rules could lead to as many as 1,400 more deaths a year .] 
"This is like throwing a few snowballs into a blizzard," said Tom Sanzillo, director of finance at the Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis. "You might see a plant here or a plant there that benefits from the new rules. But we're talking about very minor changes compared with the significant gap between the cost of coal and the cost of natural gas." 
The big picture: Coal is dying 
The E.P.A. is planning to repeal the Obama administration's Clean Power Plan, which was originally conceived as a sweeping climate change regulation that would push electric utilities to move away from coal and toward cleaner gas and renewables in order to cut carbon dioxide emissions. 
In its place, the agency will propose a looser rule that merely encourages coal plants to make modest efficiency upgrades and allows states to regulate carbon dioxide emissions from power plants lightly, if at all. 
On paper, that's a drastic revision. But the truth is that utilities had already been shifting away from coal anyway, finding cleaner gas, wind and solar to be more attractive investments. The Clean Power Plan, which was fiercely opposed by industry groups when it was proposed in 2014 and never took effect, was quickly being outpaced by market forces. 
The Trump administration's numbers bear this out. In its analysis of the new proposal, the E.P.A. estimated that the total amount of electricity produced by America's coal plants would decline about 23 percent below today's levels by 2030 without any climate regulations at all. 
If the Clean Power Plan had taken effect, coal generation would have dropped somewhat more: 29 percent below today's levels. 
And if the Trump administration's proposal is finalized? Coal-fired electricity will still decline by roughly 20 percent by 2030, the E.P.A. predicted. The total amount of coal mined for electricity would drop by one-third, compared with levels that are already the lowest in decades. 
Consider the case of Ohio-based American Electric Power, one of the nation's largest utilities, which opposed the Clean Power Plan, calling it onerous. The company is nonetheless planning to sharply reduce its reliance on coal, from half its energy mix down to one-third in the next decade, while investing heavily in wind and solar. 
"I think this new rule will have a relatively small impact on what we see as our business strategy going forward," said John McManus, senior vice president of environmental services at A.E.P. He noted that the company aimed to cut emissions another 16 percent by 2030 and was planning for the possibility that Congress might eventually enact stronger climate policies, such as a carbon tax. 
"We don't expect the climate issue to go away, so we do want to plan for a range of possible futures beyond this particular plan," he added, referring to the E.P.A.'s latest proposal. 
A second life for some plants 
The Trump administration's new proposal could, however, offer a reprieve for some individual coal plants around the country. 
The majority of the nation's coal-fired power plants are at least 40 years old, and many utilities are currently faced with the choice of paying for upgrades to keep them running or shutting them down. 
Under an existing E.P.A. program known as New Source Review, plant owners typically have to install state-of-the-art pollution controls if they significantly upgrade those plants. That acts as a deterrent for keeping those plants open, especially if, say, building a new gas plant might be cheaper. 
The Trump administration proposal, for its part, would exempt coal plants from New Source Review if they invest in efficiency improvements under the rule. That could shift the calculus and convince some plant owners to keep their coal plants open longer, especially in states like Kentucky or Wyoming, where there is somewhat less competition from natural gas. 
"I wouldn't expect a large number of plants to do this," said Travis Kavulla, the vice chairman of the Montana Public Service Commission. "But you could see this dynamic in regulated electricity markets, where utilities can recover their costs from ratepayers and regulators might be reluctant to close down plants early." 
These more efficient coal plants could, in theory, expand their market share. But since coal is the most polluting form of electricity, that would come at a cost: The E.P.A.'s analysis suggests that the resulting increase in particulate pollution, which is linked to heart and lung disease, could cause hundreds of additional premature deaths if the rule keeps more coal plants open. 
Still, it is unclear how many plants will pursue this course. Mr. McManus said that A.E.P., which operates in 11 states, may consider upgrading some of its coal plants, but much will depend on whether the rule survives legal review -- environmentalists are certain to challenge the revisions to New Source Review in court -- and what types of plans states decide to craft. 
A bigger bailout ahead? 
Even as coal industry groups cheered the Trump administration's latest move, they also argued that coal plants would likely need further policy support to avert a serious decline. 
"These changes to environmental rules are necessary but insufficient," said Michelle Bloodworth, president of the American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity, who estimated that roughly 10 percent of the nation's coal fleet is still on track to retire in the next three years. 
One possibility? The Department of Energy is considering a plan that would force grid operators to buy electricity from struggling coal plants (as well as nuclear plants) in order to keep them afloat, using emergency powers normally reserved for exceptional crises like natural disasters. 
That rumored move has already drawn criticism from other energy companies, which have called the proposal "legally indefensible" and argue that it would force consumers to pay billions more for electricity. Yet Mr. Trump has urged Energy Secretary Rick Perry to do everything he can to stop plant closings. 
For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. 
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 

Photograph 
President Trump rolling into a rally on Tuesday in Charleston, W.Va., where promises to support the coal industry have been popular even as his administration predicts the sector's continued decline. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GABRIELLA DEMCZUK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) Copyright New York Times Company Aug 23, 2018 
Subject 	Financial analysis; 
Electricity distribution; 
Emissions; 

Coal industry; 

Presidents; 
Environmental policy; 
Energy industry; 

Climate change; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Electricity; 
Carbon; 
Planning; 

Regulatory agencies; 

Coal-fired power plants; 
Environmental protection; 
Natural gas utilities; 
Pollution; 

Energy economics 


Location 	Wyoming; West Virginia; Montana; New York; Ohio; Kentucky 
People 	McManus, John; Trump, Donald J; Perry, Rick 
Company / organization 	Name: Department of Energy 

NAICS: 926130; 

Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 

NAICS: 924110; 

Name: New York Times Co 

NAICS: 511110, 511120, 515112, 515120; 


Name:  Public Service Commission-Montana  
NAICS:  926130;  
Name:  Congress  
NAICS:  921120;  

Name: Twitter Inc  
NAICS: 519130;  
Name: American Electric Power Co Inc  
NAICS: 221122, 551112;  
Name: American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity  
NAICS: 813312, 813910  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/22/climate/trump-coal-industry.html  
Title  Trump Wants to Help Coal, but It Might Be Past Saving: [National Desk]  
Author  Plumer, Brad  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.10  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Aug 23, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2091535507  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2091535507?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Aug 23, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-16  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 85 of 236 


Cost of E.P.A.'s Pollution Rules: Up to 1,400 More Deaths a Year: [National Desk] 
Friedman, Lisa.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]22 Aug 2018: A.1. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Cost+of+E.P.A.%27s+Pollution+Rules%3A+Up+to+1%2C400+More+Deaths+a+ 08-22&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Friedman%2C+Lisa&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up for our Climate Fwd: newsletter. 
WASHINGTON -- The Trump administration has hailed its overhaul of federal pollution restrictions on coal-burning power plants as creating new jobs, eliminating burdensome government regulations and ending what President Trump has long described as a "war on coal." 
The administration's own analysis, however, revealed on Tuesday that the new rules could also lead to as many as 1,400 premature deaths annually by 2030 from an increase in the extremely fine particulate matter that is linked to heart and lung disease, up to 15,000 new cases of upper respiratory problems, a rise in bronchitis, and tens of thousands of missed school days. 
Officials at the Environmental Protection Agency, which crafted the regulation, said that other rules governing pollution could be used to reduce those numbers. 
"We love clean, beautiful West Virginia coal," Mr. Trump said at a political rally Tuesday evening in West Virginia, the heart of American coal country. "And you know, that's indestructible stuff. In times of war, in times of conflict, you can blow up those windmills, they fall down real quick. You can blow up pipelines, they go like this," he said, making a hand gesture. "You can do a lot of things to those solar panels, but you know what you can't hurt? Coal." 
Nevertheless, Tuesday's release of the rule along with hundreds of pages of technical analysis for the first time acknowledged that the rollback of the pollution controls would also reverse the expected health gains from the tougher regulations. 
A similar analysis by the E.P.A. of the existing rules, which were adopted by the Obama administration, calculated that they would prevent between 1,500 and 3,600 premature deaths per year by 2030, and would reduce the number of school days missed by 180,000 annually. 
The Trump administration proposal, called the Affordable Clean Energy rule, would replace the stricter Obama-era regulations that were designed to fight global warming by forcing utilities to switch to greener power sources, but which Mr. Trump, the coal industry and electrical utilities have criticized as overly restrictive. 
But the supporting documents show that the E.P.A. expects it to allow far more pollutants into the atmosphere than the regulation it would supersede, the Clean Power Plan. 
The Trump administration has made deregulation a centerpiece of its political strategy, and the E.P.A. has led the charge. The proposed weakening of the rules on coal-burning plants follows a plan to let cars emit more pollution. Transportation and the power sector are the two largest contributors of carbon emissions. 
The data detailing the health effects of the coal-plant rules is the product of a longstanding E.P.A. requirement that new regulatory proposals go through a rigorous assessment. But as the agency works to roll back regulations on industry, it has also taken steps to sharply restrict the way it uses data to assess its own proposals. 
Critics say that these changes could make it more difficult to perform calculations like the one that the E.P.A. made public on Tuesday. As a result, the costs and benefits of sweeping new rules like these would be harder to assess. 
The numbers in both the analysis of the Clean Power Plan and its likely successor, the Affordable Clean Energy rule, are derived from an intricate three-part modeling system that the E.P.A. has used for decades to calculate the benefits and drawbacks of pollution regulation. The premature mortality numbers used in those models draw from a landmark Harvard University study, known as Six Cities, that definitively linked air pollution to premature deaths. 
Ultimately that study formed the backbone of the kind of federal air pollution regulations now being weakened. Today, however, the Six Cities study itself is under attack at the 
E.P.A. 
The agency is considering a separate rule that would restrict the use of any study for which the raw, underlying data cannot be made public for review. The argument for the rule is that the research work isn't sufficiently transparent if the data behind it isn't available for analysis. 
But scientists overwhelmingly oppose the move, pointing out that participants in long-term health studies typically agree to take part only if their personal health information won't be made public. 
If the E.P.A. finalizes that rule, it would restrict the use of one of the main pieces of research that ties pollution to premature death, potentially making it easier for future E.P.A. assessments of health impact to assign a lower premature death rate by instead using other research. 
"What it would do is change the understanding of the benefits, or in this case the disbenefits, of a particular rule-making," said Paul Billings, senior vice president for public policy at the American Lung Association. "It would exclude that important piece of information." 
The E.P.A.'s analysis of the new Trump administration plan does include premature death calculations based on studies that are considered less comprehensive than the Six Cities study. Those analyses start at the possibility of an extra eight to 25 deaths a year under Mr. Trump's climate plan. 
The E.P.A. didn't respond to questions about its proposal to limit the scientific research used in its assessment. 
At its heart, the administration's Affordable Clean Energy rule will give individual states vast authority to set more modest goals and to regulate emissions from coal plants as they see fit. Critics assailed it on Tuesday as a shortsighted effort that could set back the effort to tame global warming. 
"The Trump administration sees political value in this rollback, but our health and the economic promise of clean energy is at stake," former Vice President Al Gore said in a statement. 
Trump administration officials say the Clean Power Plan, in its effort to reduce carbon emissions, illegally tried to force electric utilities to use greener energy sources. The new plan, they said, would achieve many of the benefits sought by the Obama administration but in a way that is legal and allows states greater flexibility. 
"However much people may want E.P.A. to regulate power grids, however much people may want E.P.A. to demand that renewables be built instead of coal plants, we do not have that authority," said William J. Wehrum, the E.P.A.'s air chief, on Tuesday. 
A former coal industry attorney, Mr. Wehrum said that the agency had the authority only to "regulate emissions from things that emit" and not try to direct the broader direction of energy development. 
Andrew R. Wheeler, the E.P.A.'s acting administrator, said on Tuesday: "We are proposing a better plan. It respects the rule of law and will enable states to build affordable, clean, reliable energy portfolios." 
The administration's proposal lays out several possible pathways that individual states might use for regulating coal-fired power plants, and what the consequences would be for pollution and human health in each case. In the scenario the E.P.A. has pegged as the most likely to occur, the health effects would be significant. 
It is in that scenario where the E.P.A. estimates its plan will see between 470 and 1,400 premature deaths annually by 2030 because of increased rates of microscopic airborne particulates known as PM 2.5, which are dangerous because of their link to heart and lung disease as well as their ability to trigger chronic problems like asthma and bronchitis. 
The Trump administration analysis also found that its plan would see 48,000 new cases of what it described as "exacerbated asthma," and at least 21,000 new missed days of school annually by 2030 because of an increase of pollutants in the atmosphere. 
Mr. Wehrum acknowledged Tuesday that there would be "collateral effects" on traditional pollutants compared to what the Clean Power Plan might have achieved. But, he said, "We have abundant legal authority to deal with those other pollutants directly, and we have aggressive programs in place that directly target emissions of those pollutants." 
For more climate and environment news, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. 

Photograph 
Cheshire, Ohio. The administration's analysis of its plan to ease pollution rules predicts a rise in disease and premature deaths. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MADDIE MCGARVEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1); A power plant in Robards, Ky. The Trump administration's new pollution proposal criticizes as too restrictive Obama-era regulations, which forced utilities to switch to cleaner power sources. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A9) Copyright New York Times Company Aug 22, 2018 
Subject 	Pollutants; 
Bronchitis; 
Emissions; 

Clean technology; 

Environmental regulations; 

Coal industry; 

Air pollution; 

Personal health; 

Lung diseases; 

Energy; 
Outdoor air quality; 
Pollution control; 
Environmental policy; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Fatalities; 

Asthma; 
Regulation; 
Health risk assessment; 
Regulatory agencies; 

Public health; 
Coal-fired power plants; 
Heart; 
Respiratory diseases 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Trump, Donald J 
Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 

NAICS: 924110 


URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/21/climate/epa-coal-pollution-deaths.html 
Title  Cost of E.P.A.'s Pollution Rules: Up to 1,400 More Deaths a Year: [National Desk]  
Author  Friedman, Lisa  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.1  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Aug 22, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2091003750  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2091003750?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Aug 22, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-16  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 86 of 236 


Coal Lobby Turns Up Heat, and Australia Wilts Under Climate Change: [News Analysis] 
Cave, Damien.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]22 Aug 2018: A.4. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Coal+Lobby+Turns+Up+Heat%2C+and+Australia+Wilts+Under+Climate+Chang 08-22&volume=&issue=&spage=A.4&au=Cave%2C+Damien&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
SYDNEY, Australia -- Mile after mile of the Great Barrier Reef is dying amid rising ocean temperatures. Hundreds of bush fires are blazing across Australia's center, in winter, partly because of a record-breaking drought. 
The global scientific consensus is clear: Australia is especially vulnerable to climate change. 
And yet on Monday, Australia's prime minister, Malcolm Turnbull, abandoned a modest effort to reduce energy emissions under pressure from conservatives in his party. And on 
Tuesday, those same conservatives just missed toppling his government. 

What on earth is going on? 

Australia's resistance to addressing climate change -- by limiting emissions in particular -- is well documented. Mr. Turnbull could yet be turned out of office as rivals rally 
support for another challenge as soon as Thursday. If that happens, he will be the third Australian prime minister in the last decade to lose the position over a climate dispute. 
Despite the country's reputation for progressiveness on gun control, health care and wages, its energy politics seem forever doomed to devolve into a circus. Experts point to 

many reasons, from partisanship to personality conflicts, but the root of the problem may be tied to the land. 

Coal was discovered in New South Wales in 1797, less than a decade after the First Fleet of British settlers arrived. Within a century, the country was producing millions of tons 
of it. Now, Australia is regularly listed as the largest coal exporter in the world, accounting for 37 percent of global exports. 
Large mining companies like Rio Tinto and BHP have long wielded enormous power in Australia. Separately and through industry associations like the Minerals Council, they 

frequently host luxury events with senior politicians. Their businesses bring in more money than just about any others in Australia, and they tend to wildly outspend any group 

that challenges them politically. 
Total campaign contributions are extremely hard to track in Australia -- a lack of transparency that serves big business well -- but in the narrow band of reported spending, coal 
industry lobbyists poured roughly $3.6 million ($5 million Australian) into campaigns last year as the energy debate intensified. 

Four of the country's main environmental groups -- Greenpeace, World Wildlife Fund, Environment Victoria and the Sunrise Project -- spent just $135,000 combined ($183,000 

Australian). 
"If you look at lobby lane, who is always around, it's the Minerals Council by a country mile," said Susan Harris Rimmer, a law professor at Griffith University. "I don't think 
people understand how dominant it's been here." 

"The Europeans think we're crazy," she added. "Who's got more solar, who's got more tidal power than us? It just goes to show the strength of that particular group." 
[Sign up for Damien Cave's Australia Letter to get news, conversation starters and local recommendations in your inbox each week.] 
The trend of hyper-partisanship has not helped. Just as climate and energy issues in the United States create a toxic divide, with many on the right opposing anything the left 

supports -- including well-established science -- any mention of emissions control tends to create an anaphylactic reaction among Australian conservatives. 

The arguments differ. Some make a case for free markets, despite subsidies granted to fossil fuel companies, or they say action works only when all nations act. Others, like Mr. 
Turnbull's opponents this time, emphasize local priorities such as reduced energy prices for consumers. 
The reaction to emissions management nonetheless tends to be universal, at least on the far right. 
"Conservatives just see red when anything like a price or tax on carbon is introduced," said Bruce Wolpe, the chief of staff for Julia Gillard, the former prime minister who 

passed such a plan only to see it dismantled after losing an election to Tony Abbott. "That has become as powerful a driver here as it is in America." 
Scientists all over the world have become increasingly disappointed in the country's climate policies. 
Under Mr. Turnbull, a former investment banker and a moderate, the Australian government has increased its support for fossil fuel extraction projects, failed to meet goals set 

under the Paris climate agreement and shied away from challenging the consumption status quo even as the Great Barrier Reef bleaches toward oblivion. 

Dr. Darren Saunders, a cancer biologist in Australia, spoke for many in a popular tweet that said, "It's incredibly hard to describe how utterly sad it feels to be a scientist and dad in a country being dictated to by a small group of science-denying clowns putting their own short term political gain over the long term public interest." 
Some climate scientists were only a bit less emotional and argumentative. 
"The scientific community in Australia is unified in knowing that climate change is a problem and will become a bigger problem," said James W. Porter, a professor of ecology at the University of Georgia, specializing in the biology and ecology of coral reefs. "The government of Australia, on the other hand, has the same problems as the government in the United States and other developed countries, in that some conservative politicians don't want to believe in facts." 
What are some of those facts? 
Joëlle Gergis, a climate scientist and writer at the University of Melbourne, said in an email that the public and the politicians in Canberra, the nation's capital, ought to consider what they are failing to address. 
Australia's climate has now warmed by 1 degree Celsius since 1910, she said. 
"This makes our climate even more extreme than it otherwise would be," she said. "Our droughts are getting hotter, our heat waves have become more intense and our bush fire season is now extending into winter." 
The bleaching and damage to roughly half the Great Barrier Reef "is not a natural disaster," she added. "It is one of the clearest signals that our planet is warming." 
Farmers see their own problems looming, and even those undecided about the cause of the drought are fed up with the political bickering. 
"It's another example of politicians looking after themselves and not looking after the country," said Charles Alder, the chief executive of Rural Aid, a group that helps drought-affected farmers. 
At some point, those who study climate change argue, policymakers will fall in line with public demands. One recent poll found that 59 percent of Australians said "global warming is a serious and pressing problem" about which "we should begin taking steps now even if this involves significant costs." 
When and if the moment comes, Dr. Gergis said, "bipartisan climate change policy will be a defining moment in Australian politics." 
For more Australia coverage, sign up for the Australia Letter , join our Facebook group and start your day your local Morning Briefing . 
Credit: DAMIEN CAVE; Rick Rojas contributed reporting from Sydney, and Livia Albeck-Ripka from New York. 

AuthorAffiliation 
Rick Rojas contributed reporting from Sydney, and Livia Albeck-Ripka from New York. 
Photograph 
A tree near a water trough in drought-stricken New South Wales. Under pressure from conservatives, the government on Monday abandoned a modest effort to reduce emissions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID GRAY/REUTERS); Coal awaiting shipment at the Abbot Point coal terminal in Queensland, left. Australia exports vast amounts of coal, and mining companies wield enormous power. Right, researchers collecting coral samples from the Great Barrier Reef. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID MAURICE SMITH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; DAVID MAURICE SMITH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) Copyright New York Times Company Aug 22, 2018 
Subject 	Drought; 
Emissions control; 
Fossil fuels; 
Power; 

Politics; 

Coal industry; 

Campaign contributions; 
Environmental protection; 
Firearm laws & regulations; 

Partisanship; 
Environmental policy; 
Lobbying; 

Climate change; 
Prime ministers 


Location 	Great Barrier Reef; United States--US; Australia 
People 	Turnbull, Malcolm 
Company / organization 	Name: Rio Tinto Group 

NAICS: 212112, 212291; 


Name: BHP Billiton 

NAICS: 211111, 212231, 212234; 


Name: Greenpeace 

NAICS: 813312, 813940; 


Name: World Wildlife Fund 

NAICS: 813312 


URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/21/world/australia/australia-climate-change-malcolm-turnbull.html  
Title  Coal Lobby Turns Up Heat, and Australia Wilts Under Climate Change: [News Analysis]  
Author  Cave, Damien  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.4  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Aug 22, 2018  
column  News Analysis  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2091002990  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2091002990?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Aug 22, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-16  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 87 of 236 


Industry Insider Pushes to Erode Clean Air Rules: [National Desk] 
Lipton, Eric.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]20 Aug 2018: A.1. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Industry+Insider+Pushes+to+Erode+Clean+Air+Rules%3A+%5BNational+Desk 08-20&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Lipton%2C+Eric&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- As a corporate lawyer, William L. Wehrum worked for the better part of a decade to weaken air pollution rules by fighting the Environmental Protection Agency in court on behalf of chemical manufacturers, refineries, oil drillers and coal-burning power plants. 
Now, Mr. Wehrum is about to deliver one of the biggest victories yet for his industry clients -- this time from inside the Trump administration as the government's top air pollution official. 
On Tuesday, President Trump is expected to propose a vast rollback of regulations on emissions from coal plants, including many owned by members of a coal-burning trade association that had retained Mr. Wehrum and his firm as recently as last year to push for the changes. 
The proposal strikes at the heart of climate-change regulations adopted by the Obama administration to force change among polluting industries, and follows the relaxation of separate rules governing when power plants must upgrade air pollution equipment. Mr. Wehrum, who has led the E.P.A.'s clean air office since November, also helped deliver the changes in several of those rules. 
The rollbacks are part of the administration's effort to bring regulatory relief to the coal industry, and other major sources of air pollution. But to proponents of a tougher stance on industries that contribute to global warming, Mr. Wehrum is regarded as the single biggest threat inside the E.P.A., with Tuesday's expected announcement to weaken what is known as the Clean Power Plan the most recent evidence of his handiwork. 
"They basically found the most aggressive and knowledgeable fox and said, 'Here are the keys to the henhouse,"' said Bruce Buckheit, an air pollution expert who worked for the Justice Department's Environmental Enforcement Section and as director of the E.P.A.'s air enforcement office under Democratic and Republican presidents. 
Mr. Wehrum has been able to push his deregulatory agenda without running into ethics troubles because of a quirk in federal ethics rules. The rules limit the activities of officials who join the government from industry -- but they are less restrictive for lawyers than for officials who had worked as registered lobbyists. 
The end result is that the ethics rules generally allow Mr. Wehrum to help oversee the drafting of policies that broadly benefit the industries or clients he represented in recent years. 
"It is a failing in the rule," said Norman Eisen, a former Obama administration lawyer who wrote the White House ethics code that creates the division between how ex-lawyers and ex-lobbyists are treated. "One is subject to the tougher lobbying restriction, and the other skates through." 
In an interview, Mr. Wehrum said he was following the rules carefully, and even some critics say he generally seems to be obeying the letter of the law. "I am scrupulously complying with my ethical obligations," he said, adding that he signed Mr. Trump's so-called ethics pledge in November, committing himself to honor all such rules. 
Jeffrey R. Holmstead, the lawyer for the electric utility industry who has known Mr. Wehrum for over two decades and who served as his boss at the E.P.A. during the Bush administration, said environmentalists misunderstood Mr. Wehrum and falsely attempted to paint him as a villain. 
"What he really does care about is good regulatory policy," Mr. Holmstead said. "And that means making sure the programs are as efficient and effective as possible so collectively we are not paying more than we need to for the environmental protection that we have and that we need." 
Mr. Wehrum's client list over the last decade is a testament to his clout -- and a road map to the potential conflicts as a government official. 
Mr. Wehrum has represented major industrial companies like Koch Industries, the diversified conglomerate that sells everything from petrochemicals to asphalt, and Diageo, one of the world's largest makers of spirits, including Smirnoff vodka and Baileys Irish Cream. His clients have included the industry's largest trade associations: the American Petroleum Institute, the American Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers, the Brick Industry Association and the Utility Air Regulatory Group, whose membership list features coal-burning electric utilities. 
Mr. Wehrum's trip through the revolving door is hardly extraordinary in the Trump administration, where dozens of former lobbyists and industry lawyers now help oversee the same industries they once represented, including Andrew Wheeler, the acting agency administrator. 
But in few cases have the actions pushed by these just-departed industry executives seemed to offer such rapid and far-reaching benefits to ex-clients, and Mr. Wehrum has taken the steps even as he continues at times to meet privately with them despite federal ethics rules intended to limit such interactions. 
The overlap between Mr. Wehrum's work for the industry and his efforts since he arrived at the E.P.A. is perhaps best illustrated by a 13-page petrochemical industry memo that was shared with the E.P.A. air pollution office a week before Mr. Wehrum was confirmed by the Senate. 
The memo, which detailed a series of "regulatory changes that would be most beneficial to the refining and petrochemical sector," almost reads like a playbook for the 10 months since Mr. Wehrum arrived at the E.P.A. At least three of the major changes on the industry wish list have become or are in the process of becoming official agency policy with the help of Mr. Wehrum and his office. 
The primary author of the memo, written in October, was an industry consultant named Kenneth Weiss, but the document formed the basis of a presentation Mr. Wehrum gave on behalf of his industry clients late last year, an email sent to the E.P.A. said. The memo listed Mr. Wehrum's name at the top, in his capacity as outside counsel to the American Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers association, a group whose executive committee includes corporate officers from Valero Energy, Marathon Petroleum and Chevron. 
The agency has also agreed to no longer "second guess" -- the exact words used in the industry memo and in the E.P.A. policy change that followed shortly after Mr. Wehrum arrived -- air pollution projections by power plants and refineries. The move provoked intense protests among Mr. Wehrum's colleagues at the E.P.A. as it potentially undermines pending enforcement cases, including one prominent case involving DTE Energy of Michigan, a longtime client of Mr. Wehrum's former law firm, Hunton Andrews Kurth. 
A second priority on Mr. Wehrum's industry presentation called for a revision of the E.P.A.'s "project aggregation" policy, which could allow companies to perhaps avoid expensive upgrades to pollution control equipment by not forcing them to consider hazardous air emissions from other nearby factories they own. Such a revision is now underway, Mr. Wehrum announced in April. 
A third priority was taken care of by the E.P.A.'s March announcement revising the "project netting" system the agency uses to evaluate anticipated increases in air pollution that might result from renovations and expansions of factories and power plants. Mr. Wehrum, as an E.P.A. official, called the revision "a common-sense interpretation" of the rules. He did not mention that this was the same change he had advocated as a petrochemical industry lawyer in the memo sent late last year. 
While pushing the various rollbacks, Mr. Wehrum has at times continued to interact with former clients, despite an ethics rule that prohibits former industry lawyers and lobbyists from meeting with former clients in private settings to discuss government-related matters for two years. 
For example, less than a month after he joined the E.P.A., Mr. Wehrum was back at the Pennsylvania Avenue offices of his old law firm to give a presentation to his former client, the Utility Air Regulatory Group, whose membership list features the nation's largest coal-burning electric utilities, like American Electric Power and the Southern Company. 
The topic was an overview of efforts at the E.P.A. to roll back some of the rules Mr. Wehrum and his former law firm had helped this group fight, including the Clean Power Plan, the email records show. 
"Exceeds the E.P.A.'s statutory authority and would be repealed," Mr. Wehrum said of the Clean Power Plan, according to a summary of the presentation, which was among records obtained through a Freedom of Information request. 
John Konkus, an E.P.A. spokesman, said Mr. Wehrum's presence at this event was allowed, despite the ethics ban, because "while it included some former clients," others who attended "were not former clients." 
In the interview, Mr. Wehrum acknowledged that the line between right and wrong was not always clear. For example, he said he had repeatedly sought a definition of what represents a "particular matter involving specific parties," which he would be banned from participating in as a result of the ethics pledge. 
Citing this lack of clarity, Mr. Wehrum since he was confirmed last year has taken the unusual step for a Senate-confirmed political appointee of declining to sign a "recusal letter" that details individual clients and matters he has to stay away from -- making it harder to identify when he faces a potential conflict. 
"I have gotten three different interpretations, and what I don't want to do is sign a recusal letter and then have the rules change again," he said. 
Mr. Wehrum, an intense and cerebral lawyer as well as a rail-thin marathon runner -- he has run the Boston Marathon in a time of 3 hours 28 minutes -- knows E.P.A. air pollution rules well. Raised in Memphis, he moved to Delaware in the late 1980s soon after graduating from college and took a job as an engineer at a chemical plant, eventually attending night school to get a law degree. 
It was while working at the chemical plant -- including studying a hydrogen peroxide fire at the plant -- that he learned about the burden of responding to the E.P.A.'s complicated regulatory demands. 
"I was the guy who had to figure out if we needed permits, and would go get permits for the plant," Mr. Wehrum said. "That sort of drives a lot of how I think about this." 
He later moved to Washington and began helping to defend electric utilities and other manufacturers facing E.P.A. regulatory actions. In 2001, when a law partner was named by President George W. Bush to take over the same E.P.A. air-pollution policy office, Mr. Wehrum went with him: He served as a senior lawyer and later acting head of air pollution policy before returning to private practice toward the end of the Bush administration. 
Several changes Mr. Wehrum has helped engineer since returning to the E.P.A. relate to a program known as New Source Review, a provision that since 2000 has forced more $7 billion worth of upgrades at 112 refineries in the United States -- and another $116 million in civil penalties, according to petrochemical industry tally. New Source Review has also helped force tens of billions of dollars in air-pollution upgrades over the last two decades at more than 100 coal-burning power plants in the United States, which is why environmentalists credit the program for major reductions in smog nationwide. 
But Mr. Wehrum -- like his former clients -- considers the program "unnecessarily complicated and confusing," as Mr. Wehrum testified to the House in May. 
Asked if it was wrong for Mr. Wehrum to be pushing an agenda that would clearly benefit his former clients -- chipping away at the so-called N.S.R. rule -- an E.P.A. spokesman, said in a statement, "N.S.R. reform is part of the Trump administration's regulatory certainty agenda and predates Mr. Wehrum's service in the Trump E.P.A." 
One change was so helpful to the petrochemical industry -- making it less likely that its members will be ordered to make major upgrades to manufacturing plants during renovations -- that several of the industries top executives were invited to the E.P.A. headquarters in March to celebrate. 
Those present included executives from Marathon and Valero, two oil and gas and refinery companies that were key members of the petrochemical trade association Mr. Wehrum used to represent. Mr. Wehrum had helped write the new policy. But he has decided, at times, to skip ceremonies like this, in a nod to the ethics rules. 
"You can write the memo," joked Mr. Wehrum's chief counsel, David Harlow, who is another former Hunton lawyer, according to people present at the staff meeting where the matter was discussed. "But you can't go to the signing ceremony." 
Environmentalists and former E.P.A. officials say they remain concerned that many of the changes Mr. Wehrum is helping to deliver will hurt the public, including the repeal in January of a 23-year-old E.P.A. policy known as "once in, always in." That policy stipulates that once a major polluting entity, such as a factory or power plant, emits enough pollution to subject it to regulations under the Clean Air Act, it must forever remain subject to those rules -- even if a company can show that it has lowered its pollution rates. 
"This reckless decision allows factories to switch off their pollution control systems to save a few dollars, even if that means dumping more toxic air pollution on their neighbors and putting their health at risk," said Eric Schaeffer who spent 12 years at the E.P.A., including a stint as the head of enforcement until he left early in the Bush administration. 
Mr. Wehrum considers the predictions scare mongering. He said the policy adjustments that he and others at the E.P.A. were making could help improve the environment, as companies would be less hesitant to make upgrades to air-pollution equipment. 
Like the marathon runner he is, Mr. Wehrum shows no sign of slowing down. 
"More than anything, I just want to get stuff done," he said. 
Credit: ERIC LIPTON; Coral Davenport contributed reporting. Kitty Bennett contributed research. 

Photograph 
A coal plant, above, in Monroe, Mich. As a lawyer, William L. Wehrum, far left, the government's top air pollution official, represented several industrial giants against the E.P.A. Left, Andrew Wheeler, the agency's acting chief, is a former coal lobbyist. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEFF KOWALSKY/BLOOMBERG; RON SACHS/CNP/MEDIAPUNCH; ERIN SCHAFF FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); An oil refinery in Norco, La. Among Mr. Wehrum's clients were trade groups representing petroleum and petrochemical companies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHANNON STAPLETON/REUTERS) (A12) Copyright New York Times Company Aug 20, 2018 
Subject 	Manufacturing; 
Air cleanliness; 
Associations; 
Deregulation; 
Petroleum; 
Enforcement; 

Environmentalists; 
Environmental regulations; 

Regulatory reform; 
Air pollution; 

Coal-fired power plants; 
Lobbyists; 

Outdoor air quality; 
Ethics; 
Factories; 
Environmental protection; 
Manufacturers; 
Power plants; 
Marathons 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Wehrum, Bill 
Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 

NAICS: 924110; 

Name: American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers NAICS: 813910 
URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/19/us/politics/epa-coal-emissions-standards-william-wehrum.html 
Title 	Industry Insider Pushes to Erode Clean Air Rules: [National Desk] 
Author 	Lipton, Eric 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.1 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Aug 20, 2018 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2089780592  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2089780592?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Aug 20, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-16  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 88 of 236 


The Coming Green Wave: [Op-Ed] 
Egan, Timothy.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]18 Aug 2018: A.20. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=The+Coming+Green+Wave%3A+%5BOp­Ed%5D&title=New+York+Times&issn=03624331&date=2018-08­18&volume=&issue=&spage=A.20&au=Egan%2C+Timothy&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
If emotions were water, and you took all the heartbreak felt by the millions who followed the plight of a starving orca whale grieving over her dead calf, you'd have a river the size of the mighty Columbia. 
If anger were a volcano, and you let loose all the rage felt by people over the daily assaults on public land by the Trump administration, you'd have an eruption with the fury of Mount St. Helens. 
And if just one unorganized voting segment, the 60 million bird-watchers of America, sent a unified political message this fall, you'd have a political block with more than 10 times the membership of the National Rifle Association. 
A Green Wave is coming this November, the pent-up force of the most overlooked constituency in America. These independents, Teddy Roosevelt Republicans and Democrats on the sideline have been largely silent as the Trump administration has tried to destroy a century of bipartisan love of the land. 
But no more. Politics, like Newton's third law of physics, is about action and reaction. While President Trump tries to prop up the dying and dirty coal industry with taxpayer subsidies, the outdoor recreation industry has been roaring along. It is a $374-billion-a-year economy, by the government's own calculation, and more than twice that size by private estimates. 
That's more than mining, oil, gas and logging combined. And yet, the centerpiece of a clean and growing industry is under attack by a president with a robber baron view of the natural world. 
I write from the smoke-choked West, where the air quality in major cities has been worse than Beijing this month. While Trump spends his days comparing women to dogs, and tweets nonsense about rivers flowing to the sea, the biggest wildfire in California history blazes away. 
After the four warmest years ever recorded, scientists have now warned that the next five will be "anomalously warm." But Trump doesn't even understand time zones, let alone atmospheric upheaval. 
In the face of these life-altering changes, Trump is drafting rules to make it easier for major polluters to drive up the earth's temperature. While the orcas of Puget Sound are starving, Trump is trying to weaken the law that protects endangered species. And while lovers of the outdoors break visitation records at national parks and forests, Trump is removing land from protection. 
This is not green goo-goo or fantasy projection. You can see and feel the energy in places ignored by the national political press. 
"If D.C. comes for our public land, water or monuments again, they'll have to come through me," says Xochitl Torres Small, a Democrat with an even chance of taking a longtime Republican seat in New Mexico, in an ad showing off her political chops. 
The revolt started after Trump shrunk several national monuments in the West last year -- the largest rollback of public land protection in our history. The outdoor retailer Patagonia responded with a blank screen on its web page with the statement, "The President Stole Your Land." It was the first shot in a battle that has been raging all summer. 
At the big, boisterous outdoor industry's national trade show in Denver last month, retailers who sell to the 144 million Americans who participated in an outdoor activity last year, or the 344 million overall visitors to national parks, vowed to flex some muscle in the coming midterm elections. 
They scoffed at the absurdity of propping up coal when there are more yoga instructors in the United States than people who work to produce a filthy fuel source. They were appalled that the increasingly strange interior secretary, Ryan Zinke, blamed everything but climate change for a summer of epic wildfires. And they promised to be heard this fall. 
"We hunt and fish," said Land Tawney, a Montanan who leads the fast-growing Backcountry Hunters and Anglers. "And we vote public lands and water." 
Only one in 10 voters think Americans should use more coal. And more than 80 percent of millennials, soon to be the largest cohort of voters (if they ever turn out), believe there's solid evidence behind these freakish manifestations of an overheated earth. 
Science, a huge majority believes, is not a conspiracy. And yet, this huge majority has been ignored. These people are now ready to "put aside our differences and stand together for the places we love," as Tawney and Yvon Chouinard, the founder of Patagonia, wrote in The Denver Post. 
You will see it in Minnesota, where the 140,000 people who work in outdoor recreation are furious at Trump's attempt to open a sulfide-ore copper mine near Boundary Waters Wilderness. You will see it in a half-dozen tossup congressional races in California, where the administration is mounting the biggest assault yet on public health, with its attack on emission rules. 
If it's self-interest powering the wave, such is the nature of politics. At a time of real peril for the things that most Americans love, the silent green majority has had enough. 
I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@nytegan). 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion) , and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter . 
Copyright New York Times Company Aug 18, 2018 
Subject 	Assaults; 
Politics; 

Public lands; 
Social networks; 
Outdoor air quality; 
National parks; 
Coal 


Location 	Beijing China; New Mexico; New York; United States--US; Minnesota; Washington DC; 

California; Puget Sound 


People 	Trump, Donald J; Roosevelt, Theodore (1858-1919); Zinke, Ryan 
Company / organization 	Name: New York Times Co 

NAICS: 511110, 511120, 515112, 515120; 


Name: Twitter Inc NAICS: 519130; 
Name: National Rifle Association--NRA NAICS: 813410, 813940; 
Name: Facebook Inc NAICS: 518210, 519130 
URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/17/opinion/trump-environment-green-wave.html 
Title 	The Coming Green Wave: [Op-Ed] 
Author 	Egan, Timothy 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.20 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Aug 18, 2018 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	General Interest Periodicals--United States 
ISSN 	03624331 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  2090395196  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2090395196?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Aug 18, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-16  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 89 of 236 


U.S. to Propose Coal-Plant Rules Be Up to States: [National Desk] 
Friedman, Lisa.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]18 Aug 2018: A.1. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=U.S.+to+Propose+Coal­Plant+Rules+Be+Up+to+States%3A+%5BNational+Desk%5D&title=New+York+Times&issn=03624331&date=2018-08­18&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Friedman%2C+Lisa&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd: , our email newsletter. 
WASHINGTON -- The Trump administration next week plans to formally propose a vast overhaul of climate change regulations that would allow individual states to decide how, or even whether, to curb carbon dioxide emissions from coal plants, according to a summary of the plan and details provided by three people who have seen the full proposal. 
The plan would also relax pollution rules for power plants that need upgrades. That, combined with allowing states to set their own rules, creates a serious risk that emissions, which had been falling, could start to rise again, according to environmentalists. 
The proposal, which President Trump is expected to highlight Tuesday at a rally in West Virginia, amounts to the administration's strongest and broadest effort yet to address what the president has long described as a regulatory "war on coal." It would considerably weaken what is known as the Clean Power Plan, former President Barack Obama's signature regulation for cutting planet-warming emissions at coal-fired plants. 
That rule, crafted as the United States prepared to enter into the 2015 Paris Agreement on global warming, was the first federal carbon-pollution restriction for power plants. In 2016, the Supreme Court temporarily blocked the regulation from taking effect while a federal court heard arguments from a coalition of coal states that sued to block the rule. It remains suspended. 
Now, the Trump administration wants to defang the Obama-era rule. The move follows a separate decision this month to freeze Obama-era fuel efficiency standards that were also aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions. 
"These are the two biggest sectors of the economy that contribute to greenhouse gases in the country and are just hugely significant in terms of emissions," said Janet McCabe, the Environmental Protection Agency air chief under Mr. Obama. Together the transportation sector and the power sector account for more than half of the country's emissions, according to the agency. 
"The science is just getting clearer and clearer every day," Ms. McCabe said. "I don't know how many times people need to hear that we're having the warmest summer on record or how many storms people need to see. This is no fooling." 
Officials at the White House and the E.P.A. did not respond to requests for comment. 
The plan is the latest move in a string of efforts -- including prodding grid operators to purchase more electricity from coal plants and asserting that coal plant retirements are threatening the reliability of the national power grid -- to end what Mr. Trump has called his predecessor's war on coal and a sure sign to the industry that the Trump administration still has its back, even as coal production continues to decline. 
Michelle Bloodworth, president of the American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity, a trade group that represents coal producers, noted that 40 percent of the nation's coal plants had either been retired or were scheduled to retire. 
She put the blame for that on a mix of market conditions and what she called "very stringent" regulations under Mr. Obama. But, she said, efforts like Mr. Trump's push to order grid operators to purchase electricity from struggling coal plants along with the new carbon regulations represent a welcome relief for the industry. 
"I certainly think we are supportive of what the administration is doing and we applaud their efforts," she said. 
Conrad Schneider, advocacy director for the Clean Air Task Force, an environmental group, predicted that the new plan would ultimately make coal plants more competitive in the electricity markets, allowing them to displace cleaner sources of energy. 
"Emissions are going to go up, and I don't mean from where they would have been under the Clean Power Plan, but relative to the trends now," Mr. Schneider said. "This is to put the thumb on the scales and bring coal back." 
The proposal could help Mr. Trump rally his base in coal regions heading into the midterm elections, though there are few vulnerable Republican seats in those areas and it could also involve political risk by pushing Democrats to the polls. 
"Everyone who votes on climate change is a Democratic base," said Eli Lehrer, president of R Street, a free-market think tank in Washington that supports policies to combat climate change but opposes the Clean Power Plan. 
Under the Clean Power Plan, the Obama administration had sought to reduce the country's greenhouse gas emissions from power plants 32 percent below 2005 levels by 2030. There is no mention of an overarching national goal for reductions in the new Trump proposal, which was described on the condition of anonymity. Instead the rule sets guidelines for states to develop and submit to the E.P.A. plans to establish "patterns of performance" for existing coal plants. 
The options for achieving cuts would also be narrower. Under the Obama-era rules, states had broad latitude on how to meet their targets, ranging from building wind farms to switching from coal to natural gas. Now, reductions would be confined to measures coal plants can achieve on-site, like improving heat efficiency. 
The United States has already achieved much of the reductions sought under the Clean Power Plan, and Allison D. Wood, a partner at the law firm Hunton Andrews Kurth who represents several electric utilities, said she believed the new proposal would provide utilities with certainty while still allowing emissions to dip. 
"It may not look as stringent, but one of the important things to keep in mind is the emissions reductions that were driven by the Clean Power Plan were driven by forcing a move from coal to natural gas and renewables," she said. "That's happening anyway even in the absence of the Clean Power Plan." 
While offering a possible lifeline to the coal industry, the new rule is also notable for what it would not do: reject the federal government's legal obligation to reduce emissions. 
The plan barely takes note of climate change. The words appear on only one of the nearly 300 pages of documents, according to two of the people who have seen the full draft. Yet, by proposing the regulation at all, the Trump administration is implicitly acknowledging a key 2009 E.P.A. decision known as the endangerment finding that declares climate change a threat to human health and welfare. 
That finding is the legal backbone for almost all federal climate policy and requires the government to regulate greenhouse gas emissions. 
For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. 
Coral Davenport contributed reporting. 

Photograph 
A Winfield, W.Va., power plant. The president will offer new emissions rules in the state Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/BLOOMBERG) (A12) Copyright New York Times Company Aug 18, 2018 
Subject 	Regulation; 
Greenhouse gases; 
Electricity; 
Electricity distribution; 
Emissions; 

Carbon; 
Environmental regulations; 

Air pollution; 

Presidents; 
Coal-fired power plants; 
Outdoor air quality; 
Environmental protection; 
Emission standards; 
Environmental policy; 
Greenhouse effect; 
Climate change; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Natural gas 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Trump, Donald J 
Company / organization 	Name: Clean Air Task Force 

NAICS: 813312; 

Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA NAICS: 924110; 
Name: American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity NAICS: 813312, 813910 
URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/17/climate/trump-clean-power-rollback.html 
Title 	U.S. to Propose Coal-Plant Rules Be Up to States: [National Desk] 
Author 	Friedman, Lisa 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.1 
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Aug 18, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2089824024  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2089824024?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Aug 18, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-16  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 90 of 236 


If Mother Nature Gets a Vote in 2020: [Op-Ed] 
Friedman, Thomas L.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]15 Aug 2018: A.23. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=If+Mother+Nature+Gets+a+Vote+in+2020%3A+%5BOp­Ed%5D&title=New+York+Times&issn=03624331&date=2018-08­15&volume=&issue=&spage=A.23&au=Friedman%2C+Thomas+L&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
What if this time is different? 
There is an assumption that the 2020 presidential election will be business as usual: Donald Trump will run on the economy, social issues and immigration, and the Democratic candidate will run on income inequality, Democratic socialism and Trump's character -- the 2020 version of right-left U.S. politics. 
But I believe there's a sleeper issue out there that could force its way into the election. What if Mother Nature is on the ballot? 
What if all the extreme weather this year -- linked to climate change -- gets even worse and more costly? What if the big 2020 issue is not left-right -- but hot-cold or wet-dry? What if the big 2020 issue is not "Who lost Russia?" or "Who lost North Korea?" but "Who lost planet Earth?" 
We're talking about the natural world, so one has to be cautious. But if you look at all the destructive extreme weather buffeting the world this summer alone, it's as if Mother Nature were saying to us: "Oh, you didn't notice me tapping on your shoulder these past few years? O.K. Well, how about a little fire, Scarecrow? How about this: 
"How about I bake Europe, set the biggest wildfire California has ever seen and more active wildfires -- 460 in one day -- than British Columbia has ever seen, and also start the worst forest fires in decades in Sweden, even extending north of the Arctic Circle where temperatures this month reached 86 degrees. Meanwhile, I'll subject Japan to the heaviest rainfall it's ever recorded, and then a couple weeks later the highest temperature it's ever recorded -- 106 degrees in Kumagaya, northwest of Tokyo. And for a punctuation mark, I'll break the heat record in Death Valley, reaching 127 degrees, and burn the worst drought in living memory into Eastern Australia, where the BBC last week quoted a dairy farmer as saying, "It's gotten to the point where it's cheaper to shoot your cows than it is to feed them." 
While climate scientists have long argued that you can't attribute any single weather event to climate change, a study last year by the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine concluded: "The science has advanced to the point that this is no longer true as an unqualified blanket statement. In many cases, it is now often possible to make and defend quantitative statements about the extent to which human-induced climate change ... has influenced either the magnitude or the probability of occurrence of specific types of events or event classes." 
Climate change makes the hots hotter, the wets wetter and the dries drier. 
Heidi Cullen, chief scientist for Climate Central, an environmental organization, was quoted as telling the Weather Channel in July that the national academies' report connecting global warming to the increased risk and severity of certain classes of extreme weather -- like some of the heat waves, floods and droughts we're experiencing -- carries the same scientific import as the U.S. surgeon general's 1964 report connecting smoking to lung cancer. 
In other words: Mother Nature is done letting us pretend that we don't know and can't connect the dots -- and that could create some very interesting politics. 
Democrats have been casting about for a big idea to propel them in 2020. My free advice: If Democratic socialism or Democratic Trotskyism or abolishing ICE -- the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency -- is what will get you elected as a Democrat in your district in 2018, go for it. The Democrats must take the House back. But Trump would feast on those issues in a national election. 
However, if in 2020 we're in the midst of even more damaging droughts and storms than we are today, Democrats may be able to run against Trump's make-America-polluted­again environmental strategy and his refusal to either acknowledge the threat of climate change or seize the incredible opportunity it offers America to become richer, healthier, more secure and more respected by leading the world in clean energy technologies. 
Trump has no answer for that. He doesn't believe the climate science that NASA is telling him is true. He is trying to bring back coal precisely when wind, solar and efficiency are becoming cheaper, cleaner, healthier alternatives -- precisely when four of the five biggest wind states are red states and precisely when China has committed itself to owning the clean power and electric car markets of the future! He's trying to force the U.S. auto industry to bring back gas guzzlers when the last time we did that -- from the 1980s to the 2000s -- Japan and Korea bankrupted Detroit and we enriched petro-dictators from Venezuela to Russia to the Arab world to Iran. 
Trump is the president who's throwing away our umbrella right before the storm. 
Sure, Trump will sneer that "green" is girlyman, uneconomic, unpatriotic and vaguely French. But Democrats can easily counter that green is globally strategic, locally profitable and working class -- green is the new red, white and blue. That message can play today in Rust Belt battleground states like Michigan and Ohio. One recent clean energy industry study found that 714,257 people in 12 Midwestern states work in renewable energy generation, clean transmission, energy efficiency, clean fuels and advanced transportation. Some 108,000 in Ohio alone do, compared with 38,000 in the coal, oil and gas fields. 
The Democratic message could start with some simple math: There are currently 7.6 billion people on the planet, and in 2030 there will be 8.6 billion -- another one billion in just over a decade! If even half of them get cars, have air-conditioners and eat high-protein diets like Americans now do, we will devour and burn up the planet beyond recognition. So what does that mean? It means clean energy and efficiency have to be the next great global industry or we're going to be a bad biological experiment, whether there is climate change or not. Does anyone -- other than Trump -- believe that America can continue to dominate the world economy and not lead the next great global industry, but leave that to China? 
The Democratic strategy should be built around putting together the performance standards, research and carbon pricing to achieve what Energy Innovation C.E.O. Hal Harvey calls "the four zeros." These are, Harvey explains: 1. "A zero-carbon grid. Right now, Republican states like Texas and Wyoming dominate the U.S. wind industry and are reaping most of the jobs and environmental benefits. That should go national. 2. Zero-emission vehicles. When you combine a zero-carbon grid with electric vehicles, bingo, you have zero-carbon transportation. 3. Zero-net energy buildings. What if you could build a well-insulated home, put today's inexpensive solar panels on the roof and, over the course of a year, produce as much energy as you consume? Fantastical? No. It's now the law in Santa Monica, and getting most of the way there is already feasible -- and cost-effective -­throughout the country. 4. Zero-waste manufacturing. New techniques in manufacturing, such as 3-D printing or advanced chemistry, can slash waste -- and waste is a tax on both the budget and the earth." 
Now that's a platform worth running on, and it's one that can do what Democrats need most: make them the party of strengthening the working class and American security. 
Clean power, clean cars, clean manufacturing and efficient buildings make everything we want to achieve in our society easier. They can lower our health care costs, cut heating bills for the poor, drive 21st-century innovation, foster decent jobs, mitigate climate change, create more competitive export industries, weaken petro-dictators -- and enhance 
U.S. national security and moral leadership. 
Let Trump fight that idea. If Mother Nature keeps on this destructive track into 2020, well, Trump's favorite mantra about strong women, "Lock her up," will look awfully silly. 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion) , and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter . 
Copyright New York Times Company Aug 15, 2018 
Subject 	Immigration policy; 
Nature; 
Automobile industry; 

Manufacturing; 
Working class; 
Dictators; 
Clean technology; 

Carbon; 
Electric vehicles; 
Weather; 
Global warming; 
Presidential elections; 
Environmental policy; 
Energy industry; 

Climate change; 
Rain; 
Elections; 

Efficiency 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Trump, Donald J 
Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 

NAICS: 924110 


URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/14/opinion/2020-election-climate-change-trump.html 
Title 	If Mother Nature Gets a Vote in 2020: [Op-Ed] 
Author 	Friedman, Thomas L 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.23 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Aug 15, 2018 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  2091003453  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2091003453?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Aug 15, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-16  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 91 of 236 


California Battles a Record Fire, Plus 16 More: [National Desk] 
Arango, Tim; Medina, Jennifer.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]08 Aug 2018: A.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=California+Battles+a+Record+Fire%2C+Plus+16+More%3A+%5BNational+Desk 08-08&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Arango%2C+Tim%3BMedina%2C+Jennifer&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
MATHER, Calif. -- Inside the state's emergency command center here, the numbers on a large screen show the scope and reach of California's record-setting wildfire season glowing in red, blue and yellow: nearly 600,000 acres burned. More than 13,000 firefighters battling blazes. More than 2,300 members of the National Guard pulled into the fight. 
The numbers, though, do not begin to tell the story of the challenge and complexity of the firefighting effort, with temperatures still soaring. Fires are moving faster than anyone has ever seen, and barriers that in years past contained fires -- bulldozer lines, highways, rivers -- are now no match. By midday Tuesday the numbers had already climbed, as more acres burned and more personnel had been rushed to the fires. 
All of this comes as California is fighting approximately 17 large fires simultaneously, including the largest in the state's recorded history. The fire season that has already scorched nearly three times the number of acres over the same period last year has tested the state's firefighting resources like never before. 
"It's unprecedented to have so many sustained demands for so many resources over such a short amount of time," said Jonathan Cox, a battalion chief and spokesman with Cal Fire, the state's firefighting agency. 
The firefighting and recovery efforts -- from managing air quality to setting up emergency shelters, to helping residents return home -- are led at the highest levels from the command center in Mather, on the outskirts of Sacramento. 
Each morning in this high-tech, modern glass building, the top state emergency officials appointed by Gov. Jerry Brown sit down to review what happened the night before. And Tuesday morning, even as news came in overnight that the state was now grappling with the largest fire in its history -- called the Mendocino Complex -- it was just one subject of many. The roughly 20-person team reviewed weather forecasts, the availability of airplanes to fight various blazes and the efforts to get residents home, and discussed the effects on tourism in Yosemite National Park. 
"You cannot wait for the phone to ring here," said Mark Ghilarducci, the director of the California Governor's Office of Emergency Services, who runs the daily meeting. "You have to be in front of the next disaster." 
California now has more firefighters deployed than at any other time in the state's history. Several dozen firefighters from Australia and New Zealand had been diverted south from the devastating Carr Fire to help with the Mendocino Fire. A battalion of infantry soldiers from the United States Army was being dispatched. And with California's own resources tapped out, 17 states have rushed equipment and firefighters to aid the effort. 
A pair of fires called the Mendocino Complex had been growing for nearly two weeks before becoming the largest fire on Monday night. The Northern California fire has already consumed roughly 454 square miles and forced tens of thousands of people from their homes. 
Both fires began in late July, one of them believed to have been caused by a spark from someone using a hammer, Mr. Ghilarducci said. 
While the Mendocino Complex has so far burned mostly in remote areas and nobody has died from the fire, officials remain concerned that, given the speed in which it is moving, people and homes could be at risk. 
"They are still under threat because the fire is moving east and southeast," said Kelly B. Huston, the deputy director of the emergency services office. "This is a very stubborn fire early in an extraordinarily dangerous fire season." 
The deadly fires in wine country last fall left residents in Mendocino County shaken, said Adrian Fernandez Baumann, the editor of The Mendocino Voice. 
"They are particularly on edge and alert about whether or not they are able to get the accurate evacuation orders," he said, adding that cellphone and landline services were cut off for days last year. "Between the real sense of isolation and the deaths and the property destruction and the suddenness of it -- it killed people who were essentially asleep in bed. So people are shell shocked, people are on edge." 
The current fires have forced the state to use every resource available. There are roughly 5,300 full-time firefighters with Cal Fire, who, along with 1,700 seasonal firefighters throughout the state, are often the first to the front lines of the state's wildfires. The state also relies on thousands of federal firefighters based in California who respond to fires in national parks and forests. And there are 3,500 inmate firefighters who live in camps throughout the state and are routinely called up -- nearly 2,000 were deployed on Tuesday. 
This summer, firefighters from more than a dozen other states, including Maine, New Jersey, Michigan and South Dakota, have all come to assist. 
"There are more fires that are burning more expansively over longer periods of time, and there are fewer resources available to respond, especially to respond quickly," said Carroll Wills, a spokesman for the California Professional Firefighters, a statewide union. "And local agencies often feel like they can't send crews to help, because their resources are scarce and they feel like they have to be able to protect their home front." 
Federal and state fire officials prioritize which fires need the most resources largely based on how many homes are threatened, but that can change in mere hours. This means officials are constantly reassessing the demands for crews and equipment. Fire officials regularly ask for "mutual aid" from other departments, who also must anticipate the possibility of new fires. 
"As large as our firefighting resources are, they're limited, and we're rapidly approaching the limits of what our personnel can handle," said Marti Witter, a fire ecologist with the National Park Service. "Everyone's in the air, everyone's on the ground, and the fire's just getting bigger. So it's pretty extreme." 
Just in the last two weeks, several crews have responded to the Cranston Fire in Southern California, driving for 10 hours to the Carr Fire in Redding and then heading to the Mendocino Complex Fire about 200 miles south, Mr. Cox said. The firefighters are supposed to get a day off every 14 days and another two after three weeks. That does not always happen, Mr. Cox said. 
Even as firefighters travel from one end of the state to another, they move quickly: Cal Fire says there is a maximum of 18 hours in "reflex time," from the moment a crew is ordered somewhere until the time they arrive. Crews routinely drive all night only to start battling flames in a new location shortly after dawn. 
The state also relies on hundreds of private contractors who operate bulldozers and water trucks needed to fight the fires. But there are regularly times when a team managing a particular fire asks for more help and receives a dreaded bureaucratic answer: UTF, short for unable to fulfill. 
As the Mendocino Fire continues to rage, the Ferguson Fire has completely shut down swaths of Yosemite National Park indefinitely, leaving the hugely popular destination looking like a ghost town in what should be peak tourist season. Much of the Sacramento Valley is filled with smoke, and tourists in Lake Tahoe have reported canceling their vacations because of the choking haze. 
In Redding, the Carr Fire has killed seven people, destroyed more than 1,000 homes and burned so badly that some ravaged neighborhoods are unrecognizable. It is the 12th largest in California history, at about 164,000 acres. While that fire has slowed down and residents have begun to return home, new fires in other parts of the state sent people fleeing Monday night. 
A fire in the Cleveland National Forest exploded, easily consuming 4,000 acres and forcing evacuations from two canyons in Orange County. The smoke from that fire could be seen from as far away as Santa Catalina Island. Another Northern California fire in the Stanislaus National Forest destroyed a century-old resort. 
Larry Dietz, a Red Cross spokesman, said that there were about 500 people in six Red Cross shelters and in one other shelter that is not affiliated with the agency in Lake, Colusa and Mendocino Counties. 
"We have a very high proportion of people that are in the shelter requiring significant medical care, such as mobility issues and use of oxygen tanks," he said. 
In the last 10 months, fires have killed more than 40 people and burned down thousands of homes. The devastation began with the wine country fires in October, and just two months later fires in Santa Barbara and Ventura Counties became the largest in recorded state history. The record lasted only eight months. 
The fires are fueled by extreme heat and parched vegetation from years of drought. And firefighters have repeatedly been vexed by the soaring temperatures and rugged terrain of the current fires. 
Scientists say climate change is a central factor in creating the atmospheric ingredients that make wildfires like California's more extreme. Warmer global temperatures, driven by the greenhouse gases emitted from human activity like burning coal and driving cars, has led to droughts as well as more extreme heat waves that last longer. The result: increasingly intense fire seasons that start earlier and last longer. 
"You combine drought and heat, you get record wildfires. It's not rocket science," said Michael Mann, director of the Earth System Science Center at Pennsylvania State University. 
As officials rush to respond to the latest fires, they are also deploying new strategies: using complex analyses of weather patterns and historical data, which officials here describe as their "crystal ball," to predict where the next fire will be, and sending forces to be on standby. In recent weeks, officials on five occasions have dispatched firefighters to locations where they believed fires could erupt, and in one case, in Santa Barbara, one did. 
"It's a big chess game," Mr. Ghilarducci said. 
And even as the fires burn, analysts are already thinking of the mudslides that could come later, as rain in the winter months soaks the scorched earth. Earlier this year, more than 20 people were killed in mudslides that tore through Montecito. So while the fires burn, analysts in the command center are already figuring out where the highest risks are for devastating debris flows. 
"It's sort of the one-two punch of Mother Nature that gets us every year," Mr. Huston said. 
Credit: TIM ARANGO and JENNIFER MEDINA; Tim Arango reported from Mather, Calif., and Jennifer Medina from Los Angeles. Lisa Friedman contributed reporting from Washington, Christine Hauser from New York and Jose A. Del Real from Los Angeles. 
Photograph 
The Ranch Fire on Sunday, before it combined with the rest of the Mendocino Complex wildfires. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NOAH BERGER/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 
(A1); Above, smoke from the Ranch Fire colored the sunset at Austin Park in Clearlake, Calif., with Mount Konocti in the background. Left, to the north, firefighters doused a hot 
spot near Redding, Calif., after the Carr Fire moved through the area last week. The Carr and Ferguson fires could be seen last week from the International Space Station. 
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY KENT PORTER/THE PRESS DEMOCRAT, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS; JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES; ALEXANDER GERST/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -­GETTY IMAGES) (A11) 
Copyright New York Times Company Aug 8, 2018 

Subject 	Firefighters; 

Heat; 
Landslides & mudslides; 

Forest & brush fires; 
National parks; 
Seasons 


Location  Santa Barbara California; California; Los Angeles California; New York; France  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/07/us/california-fires-mendocino.html  
Title  California Battles a Record Fire, Plus 16 More: [National Desk]  
Author  Arango, Tim; Medina, Jennifer  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.1  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Aug 8, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2084721912  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2084721912?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Aug 8, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-16  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 92 of 236 



How Much Car Pollution? A Whole Country's Worth: [National Desk] 
Plumer, Brad.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]04 Aug 2018: A.14. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=How+Much+Car+Pollution%3F+A+Whole+Country%27s+Worth%3A+%5BNatio 08-04&volume=&issue=&spage=A.14&au=Plumer%2C+Brad&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- President Trump's proposal this week to weaken fuel-efficiency standards for cars and light trucks could be his most consequential climate-policy rollback yet, increasing greenhouse gas emissions in the United States by an amount greater than many midsize countries put out in a year. 
Assuming the plan is finalized and survives legal challenges, America's cars and trucks would emit an extra 321 million to 931 million metric tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere between now and 2035 as a result of the weaker rules, according to an analysis by the research firm Rhodium Group. A separate estimate by the think tank Energy Innovation pegged the number even higher, at 1.25 billion metric tons. 
To put that in context, the extra pollution in 2035 alone would be more than the current annual emissions from countries like Austria, Bangladesh or Greece, the Rhodium Group analysis found. 
How big a deal is that for global warming? The Trump administration claims it is negligible. By 2100, officials argued in their proposal, concentrations of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere would only be 0.65 parts per million higher under the rollback than they would be if the stricter Obama-era rules had stayed in place. (Current levels in the atmosphere are around 410 parts per million.) 
But that's the wrong way to look at it, according to Trevor Houser, lead author of the Rhodium Group report. Any single climate policy from a single country will look relatively modest in isolation. Stopping global warming will require a wide variety of efforts to cut emissions from every sector of nearly every country. "In that context, this single policy really does have a big impact," he said. 
His analysis estimated that the fuel-economy rollback could have a bigger effect on emissions than either Mr. Trump's attempts to repeal the Clean Power Plan -- a federal rule to curb pollution from coal-fired power plants -- or his efforts to scale back regulations on oil and gas operations that release methane, a potent greenhouse gas, into the atmosphere. 
There's a simple reason for that. Many states have already been making impressive headway on cleaning up their power plants, thanks to a glut of cheap natural gas (which is pushing coal plants into retirement) and the falling cost of wind and solar power. Carbon dioxide emissions from the United States electricity sector are now on pace to fall below the targets envisioned in the original Clean Power Plan. 
But pollution from cars and trucks has proved much trickier for states to take on. Transportation now accounts for one-third of America's carbon-dioxide emissions, surpassing power plants as the largest source, and vehicle emissions have been steadily rising over the past few years. Federal fuel-economy standards were widely seen as a vital tool for curbing gasoline use. 
"We've seen nowhere near the same progress in transportation as we've seen in electricity," said Jordan Stutt, a policy analyst at the Acadia Center, a group in New England that is pushing for cleaner energy. 
The original Obama-era standards would have required automakers to roughly double the fuel economy of their new cars, pickup trucks and S.U.V.s by 2025, putting out vehicles that would average roughly 36 miles per gallon on the road. The Trump proposal would halt the rise of those standards after 2021, when new cars were expected to average around 30 miles per gallon. 
The Obama-era rules also granted California permission to set up a separate, more ambitious program to mandate more zero-emission cars on the road. Nine other states in the Northeast have adopted that program, which would require roughly 8 percent of new vehicles sold in-state to be plug-in hybrid, electric or hydrogen fuel cell models. 
The Trump proposal plans to challenge California's authority to mandate zero-emissions cars and to halt the clean vehicle program, which could dramatically slow the adoption of electric vehicles around the country in the near term. 
"The zero-emissions vehicle waiver has been the biggest catalyst to date in bringing electric vehicles to market," said Don Anair, research and deputy director of the Clean Vehicles Program at the Union of Concerned Scientists. 
There are, however, a few important factors that could potentially counteract the climate impact of the Trump administration's rollback, assuming that it survives any court challenge by California and other states and becomes final. 
First, fuel prices will matter enormously. If oil prices increase significantly over the next decade, then many drivers might opt to buy more efficient vehicles regardless of what federal standards require. (The lower emissions numbers in the Rhodium Group analysis are based on a scenario where oil prices are high.) 
But if gasoline prices stay at current levels -- around $2.80 per gallon -- or drop further, then Americans are expected to continue to buy S.U.V.s and other gas guzzlers, as they have been doing in increasing numbers the past few years. 
Second, states could try to enact other fresh policies to try to cut emissions from the transportation sector and blunt the impact from Trump's rollback. California and New York, for instance, have been offering tax breaks for people to buy electric vehicles, and they have been investing hundreds of millions of dollars in new charging infrastructure. 
Other Northeastern states have been participating in discussions on how to reduce vehicle emissions, through steps like expanding mass transit, buying electric buses or reconfiguring cities to make them denser and more walkable. 
But some of these state policies can be politically difficult and take time to enact. In the absence of stricter federal fuel economy standards, states like Connecticut and Maryland that have set legislative targets for reducing economywide emissions might struggle to meet their goals. 
"Transportation is extremely complicated and it really takes all levels of government working together," said Vicki Arroyo, the executive director of the Georgetown Climate Center, who has been working with states on plans to cut emissions from transportation. If the federal government pulls back, she said, "it's a tremendous setback." 
The automakers themselves are another wild card. While many manufacturers have been developing new electric car models in response to the ever-rising fuel economy standards, it's not clear how many would completely pull back if the standards were frozen. China and Europe are continuing to push hard on fuel efficiency and battery-powered vehicles, and automakers have those international markets to consider. 
And the biggest wild card of all? What the next president might do. "If a new administration came in, they'd have a blank slate for rethinking the standards entirely, and there are a lot of ideas out there for standards that would be even more effective" than the Obama-era rules, said Mr. Houser. 
If a future president ultimately managed to put even stricter vehicle rules in place, he said, "that would certainly reduce the magnitude of the emissions impact that we're projecting." 

Photograph 
New trucks for delivery. The president has proposed rolling back Obama-era fuel-efficiency rules. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE BLAKE/REUTERS) Copyright New York Times Company Aug 4, 2018 
Subject 	Automobile industry; 

Electric vehicles; 
Gasoline prices; 
Energy efficiency; 
Fuel economy standards 


Location 	Bangladesh; Connecticut; Greece; New York; United States--US; England; Maryland; China; 

California; Northeastern states; Austria; Europe 


People 	Trump, Donald J 
Company / organization 	Name: Union of Concerned Scientists 

NAICS: 813920 


URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/03/climate/trump-climate-emissions-rollback.html 
Title 	How Much Car Pollution? A Whole Country's Worth: [National Desk] 
Author 	Plumer, Brad 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.14 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Aug 4, 2018 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	General Interest Periodicals--United States 
ISSN 	03624331 
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2082468725  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2082468725?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Aug 4, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-16  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 93 of 236 


S.E.C. Ends Investigation Into Exxon's Accounting: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Ballentine, Claire.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]04 Aug 2018: B.6. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=S.E.C.+Ends+Investigation+Into+Exxon%27s+Accounting%3A+%5BBusiness% 08-04&volume=&issue=&spage=B.6&au=Ballentine%2C+Claire&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
The Securities and Exchange Commission has ended an investigation into Exxon Mobil's policy of not writing down the value of its oil reserves to account for the risk that future climate change regulations might pose to the company. 
The commission informed Exxon of its decision in a letter on Thursday, saying that it did not intend to pursue enforcement action against the company at this time. 
The inquiry, which began in January 2016, focused on how Exxon calculated the potential costs of complying with regulations meant to limit greenhouse gas emissions. Such regulations could force fossil fuel companies to keep oil, natural gas and coal in the ground. 
Scott Silvestri, an Exxon spokesman, said in a statement that the company had cooperated fully with the investigation, producing more than 4.2 million pages of documents. Mr. Silvestri reiterated the company's position that its handling of the information at issue was appropriate. 
"We are confident our financial reporting meets all legal and accounting requirements," he said. 
The commission declined to comment. 
In August 2016, the commission requested documents and other information from Exxon and from its auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. 
It also received documents that Exxon submitted as part of an inquiry by state attorneys general, including New York's, into the company's internal research and other activities related to climate change. In March, a federal judge dismissed Exxon's effort to block that investigation. 
Exxon has argued that fossil fuels will be necessary to meet the energy needs of the world's growing population in coming decades. The company contends that oil and gas prices rise and fall over time and that it makes long-term investment decisions. The company has also said it is making efforts to curb climate change by studying carbon-capture and sequestration technology and advanced biofuels made from algae. 

Photograph 
Exxon Mobile says it cooperated fully with the investigation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHONA KASINGER/BLOOMBERG) Copyright New York Times Company Aug 4, 2018 
Subject 	Fossil fuels; 
Climate change; 
Natural gas 


Location 	New York 
Company / organization 	Name: Securities & Exchange Commission 

NAICS: 926150; 

Name: PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP NAICS: 541211, 541611; 
Name: Exxon Mobil Corp NAICS: 211111, 447110 
URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/03/business/exxon-mobil-sec-climate-change.html 
Title  S.E.C. Ends Investigation Into Exxon's Accounting: [Business/Financial Desk]  
Author  Ballentine, Claire  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.6  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Aug 4, 2018  
Section  B  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2082467197  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2082467197?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Aug 4, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-16  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 94 of 236 


A Reckless Scheme on Auto Emissions: [Editorial] 
New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]03 Aug 2018: A.22. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=A+Reckless+Scheme+on+Auto+Emissions%3A+%5BEditorial%5D&title=New 08-03&volume=&issue=&spage=A.22&au=&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
The Trump administration's decision to try to weaken President Barack Obama's landmark 2012 agreement to increase fuel efficiency and decrease global warming emissions from automobiles is dismaying on so many levels that it is hard to know where to begin. 
The proposal from the current administration would freeze the average fuel economy after 2021 at about 37 miles per gallon; the Obama-era rule would have required automakers to hit an average of about 54 miles per gallon by 2025. The Trump plan would also revoke a waiver that the federal government granted to California, which allows the state to set stricter standards because of its particular air pollution problems. 
Cars and trucks are currently the largest source of planet-warming emissions in the United States. 
The proposal from the Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of Transportation sets up a protracted legal fight with California and the 13 other states, including New York and New Jersey, that have chosen to follow its stronger standards. The state's waiver was authorized under the 1970 Clean Air Act and has been renewed dozens of times by the E.P.A. It is one more nail in the coffin of Mr. Obama's climate strategy, and further increases the already long odds of reaching Mr. Obama's pledge at the 2015 Paris summit on climate change to reduce America's greenhouse gas emissions by more than a quarter below 2005 levels by 2025. 
Of the Trump plan, Gov. Jerry Brown of California said in a statement: "Under his reckless scheme, motorists will pay more at the pump, get worse gas mileage and breathe dirtier air. California will fight this stupidity in every conceivable way possible." 
To justify the unjustifiable, the Trump administration is deploying a series of bogus arguments that freezing the Obama standards would prevent nearly 13,000 traffic fatalities. That number stands in stark contrast to the Obama administration's conclusion that its standards would lower fatalities by 100. 
The Trump administration uses three dubious assumptions to reach its conclusion. First, it asserts that people who buy more fuel-efficient cars would drive more -- about 1.3 trillion miles more than previous estimates -- because it would be cheaper to do so and they would, thus, be at greater risk of accidents. This is what experts call the rebound effect, but few researchers say the effect is this strong. One scholar, Kenneth Gillingham, a Yale economist, whose work the government relied on to come up with its numbers, told The Times that the administration ignored more recent work that showed a much smaller effect. 
Next, the administration says that because more fuel-efficient cars would be more expensive, fewer people would buy them and they would choose to keep driving older cars that tend be less safe than newer models. This argument is belied by the fact that car sales have been strong in recent years, even as fuel economy improved to 25.1 miles per gallon in 2018 models, from 21.8 miles per gallon in 2011, according to the Consumer Federation of America. On average, Americans bought 17 million cars annually over the last five years while about 13 million older models went off the road. 
Finally, Trump officials claim that automakers would have to make their vehicles lighter to meet the Obama standards, which would make them less safe. This is bunk. Lighter-weight aluminum, which many automakers have turned to as a replacement for steel, protects motorists better because it crumples and absorbs the impact of crashes better than heavier materials, said Daniel Becker, director of the Safe Climate Campaign at the Center for Auto Safety. Further, newer models tend to have more sophisticated safety features, like automatic braking and lane-departure warnings, that over time should make American roads safer. 
On a global level, at a time when the rest of the world (and even many American industries) is investing in newer, cleaner forms of energy, the administration's policy change would put American companies further back in the race to build more efficient and less polluting vehicles. 
And it ignores, as have President Trump's other actions, the rock-solid scientific consensus that without swift action to limit fossil fuel emissions, like those from cars, the consequences of climate change -- rising seas, devastating droughts, wildfires and floods, and widespread species extinction -- will get steadily worse. 
Of course, none of this was unexpected from a man who once described climate change as a hoax invented by the Chinese to hurt American businesses and who has surrounded himself with officials who, in many cases, owe their political success to the largess of oil, gas and coal companies. Mr. Trump withdrew from the Paris treaty on June 1 of last year, less than five months into his presidency, by which time he had already ordered the demolition of nearly all of Mr. Obama's policies to reduce greenhouse emissions. 
The Clean Power Plan, aimed at closing old coal-fired power plants, is stuck in the courts while the E.P.A. devises a largely meaningless substitute. Proposals to reduce emissions of methane, a short-lived though very powerful greenhouse gas, from natural gas facilities are under challenge in the Interior Department. An international treaty to phase out another powerful heat-trapping gas, the hydrofluorocarbons widely used in air-conditioners, languishes on Mr. Trump's desk. 
But of all these rollbacks, perhaps the most galling is the weakening of the fuel-economy standards, which seems a betrayal of history. Just a few years ago everyone seemed to be on board. In 2007, after years in which the fuel economy of the American car fleet had stagnated, Congress asked for improvements. Soon after taking office, Mr. Obama announced a new and much improved set of fuel-economy standards based on greenhouse gas emissions. At a Rose Garden ceremony, he was flanked by officials from 10 automakers and their unions, as well as Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California -- an unusual and hopeful display of partnership. 
In a sense, the automakers had little choice: A federal bailout had rescued two of them, General Motors and Chrysler, from the brink of collapse. Further, without California's participation in the deal, the entire industry would have faced the unwelcome prospect of two sets of fuel-economy standards -- something that is much more likely now. 
Though it took several years to iron out details, the net result was an agreement to roughly double the fuel economy of passenger vehicles while saving drivers billions of dollars at the pump, reducing carbon emissions and oil dependence and easing the way for a transition to a new fleet of cleaner and safer vehicles able to compete anywhere in the world. 
Mr. Obama, in short, forged the kind of deal that the Great Dealmaker in the White House likes to boast about. Now that very same dealmaker is trying to kill it with a plan that has only losers. 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion) , and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter . 
Credit: THE EDITORIAL BOARD 

Illustration 
DRAWING (DRAWING BY THE HEADS OF STATE) Copyright New York Times Company Aug 3, 2018 
Subject 	Editorials; 

Automobile industry; 

Emissions; 

Environmental regulations; 

Regulatory reform; 
Air pollution; 

Energy efficiency; 
Fuel economy standards; 
Emission standards; 
Climate change 


Location 	United States--US; California 
People 	Trump, Donald J; Obama, Barack 
Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 

NAICS: 924110; 

Name: Department of Transportation NAICS: 926120 
URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/02/opinion/auto-emissions-california-cafe.html 
Title 	A Reckless Scheme on Auto Emissions: [Editorial] 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.22 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Aug 3, 2018 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	General Interest Periodicals--United States 
ISSN 	03624331 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type  Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  2081934838  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2081934838?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Aug 3, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-16  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 95 of 236 


E.P.A. Chief Details Past Advocacy for Big Utilities and Mining Companies: [National Desk] 
Friedman, Lisa.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]02 Aug 2018: A.17. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=E.P.A.+Chief+Details+Past+Advocacy+for+Big+Utilities+and+Mining+Companie 08-02&volume=&issue=&spage=A.17&au=Friedman%2C+Lisa&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Want the latest climate news in your inbox? You can sign up here to receive Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter. 
WASHINGTON -- The acting chief of the Environmental Protection Agency, Andrew Wheeler, has come under scrutiny for his years spent as a powerful energy lobbyist. He has represented an electric utility, a uranium producer, and, most significantly, a coal magnate who paid Mr. Wheeler's former lobbying firm more than $2.7 million over eight years. 
Mr. Wheeler is now in a position to act upon issues he once raised on behalf of his clients. And he is expected to be grilled on his relationships in the Senate on Wednesday, when he makes a regular appearance before the Committee on Environment and Public Works. It will be his first testimony in Congress since assuming leadership of the agency in July, when Scott Pruitt resigned as E.P.A. administrator. 
In an interview, Mr. Wheeler provided fresh details about his lobbying activities, including specifics not included in his government-required disclosure forms, which have been criticized for their lack of detail. Mr. Wheeler also said that, well before Mr. Pruitt's ethics scandals hit the E.P.A., he had begun stepping away from lobbying activities related to the E.P.A., on the chance he might serve at the agency. 
His recent activity as a coal lobbyist, he said, was pushing to kill a rule before the Interior Department that would have restricted coal companies from dumping waste into streams. He also advocated for the Miners Protection Act, he said, a bill that would have used funds earmarked to clean up abandoned mines to bolster mine workers' health care and pension plans. 
Mr. Wheeler acknowledged working with Robert Murray, the head of Murray Energy, a coal company, to fight former President Obama's signature climate change regulation, the Clean Power Plan. But he distanced himself from a series of memos that Mr. Murray earlier had presented to top Trump administration officials -- including Energy Secretary Rick Perry and Mr. Pruitt -- involving direct E.P.A. issues like eliminating a major regulation on smog and reversing a scientific finding that global warming harms human health. 
"I did not reach out to the Pruitt E.P.A. at all. I did not lobby them. That was purposeful," Mr. Wheeler said. After the election, I cut off all ties with E.P.A. and I did not take on any new E.P.A. issues." 
Yet while his most recent work did not involve lobbying the E.P.A. directly, his activities -- particularly on behalf of the coal industry, which is subject to E.P.A. regulations on fossil-fuel emissions -- have drawn sharp questions from Democrats and environmental groups. 
Mr. Wheeler faces at least one formal complaint, by the nonpartisan government watchdog group Public Citizen, alleging that he "appears to be working on the same specific issue areas he had lobbied on within the last two years." That is a potential violation of President Trump's ethics rules limiting the influence of former lobbyists on the government, the group asserts. 
Mr. Wheeler's critics point in particular to his lobbying disclosure filings, which describe his lobbying activities only in general terms that they say fail to adequately reveal what he actually worked on the past eight years. "If I had it to do over again, I would have been more specific," Mr. Wheeler said. "But when I started lobbying I didn't really anticipate ever going back into the government." 
However, by the time the 2016 election came around, Mr. Wheeler said he began shedding his E.P.A.-related lobbying, anticipating that he might be called on to join the Trump administration. "I knew it was a possibility, so after the election I stopped lobbying any new E.P.A. issues," Mr. Wheeler said. 
One of Mr. Trump's earliest executive orders, aimed at fulfilling his promise to "drain the swamp" in Washington, permitted former lobbyists like Mr. Wheeler to join the administration as long as they did not meet one-on-one with former clients or work on any specific matters they had handled in private practice in the previous two years. 
Mr. Wheeler, along with Justina Fugh, the E.P.A.'s senior counsel for ethics, said he had not sought or received any ethics waivers. Such special dispensations have been granted to dozens of people throughout the administration to bypass Mr. Trump's executive order and allow them to work on the matters on which they lobbied. 
"I think that's an ethical cloud if you have a waiver. I personally didn't want to do that," Mr. Wheeler said. "Because I was a lobbyist, and that was made a big deal during my confirmation process, I just wanted to be on safe ground there." 
Mr. Wheeler and Ms. Fugh said he had recused himself from meeting with Mr. Murray and seven other former clients for whom he worked during the two-year period covered under Mr. Trump's ethics rule. He also has declared one E.P.A. issue hands-off for him: a program called Energy Star that is overseen by the agency and that provides E.P.A. labeling so consumers can compare the efficiency of washing machines, air-conditioners and other appliances. 
Mr. Wheeler had lobbied Congress on behalf of Underwriters Laboratories, a company that does safety testing, which objected to some provisions in a bill related to Energy Star. 
Mr. Wheeler said he also had gone beyond Mr. Trump's ethics rules to set up a process within E.P.A. to make sure he is not involved in decisions about any of the approximately 45 toxic cleanup areas, known as Superfund sites, owned by former lobbying or consulting clients. "I don't see anything having to do with any of those sites," he said. 
Jan W. Baran, a leading Republican ethics lawyer, said Mr. Wheeler's lobbying past may not sit well with environmentalists but it appears to meet the legal requirements laid out under federal lobbying rules. "Whether a coal lobbyist leading E.P.A. is ethical, that's different. You can have a discussion about that," Mr. Baran said. And, he added, "Just because Murray is involved in the E.P.A. doesn't necessarily require Wheeler to recuse himself from everything." 
In his first detailed discussion of his lobbying, Mr. Wheeler explained the bulk of his private-practice work over the past two years: 
Representing Sargento Foods, a Wisconsin-based cheese giant, he lobbied for legislation related to genetically modified food that would define the difference between natural and processed cheese, an issue the Food and Drug Administration is considering. 
For Xcel Energy, a utility company based in Minneapolis, he lobbied to help the company obtain a charitable deduction and backed legislation that would have protected its ability to remove dead wood around transmission lines in national forests, an issue that the United States Forest Service deals with. 
For the uranium mining company Energy Fuels Resources, Mr. Wheeler helped the company's bid to persuade the Interior Department to adjust the boundaries of Bears Ears National Monument, emails released under public records laws show. 
His work with Mr. Murray began in 2009 with a successful effort to kill congressional plans to curtail and put a price on carbon emissions. His disclosure forms after those early years, though, described his work for Murray only in broader terms, calling it "general energy and environment issues." 
Critics like Norman L. Eisen, the chairman of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, argue that, based on Mr. Wheeler's own official descriptions of his lobbying activities, Mr. Wheeler is obligated to not work on "general energy and environment issues," which would cripple his ability to serve as leader of the E.P.A. 
"That is an exact description of what he does all day now at E.P.A.," said Mr. Eisen said. He served as Mr. Obama's special counsel for ethics and helped write the 2009 executive order upon which Mr. Trump based his 2017 order that set down rules for administration officials who have worked as lobbyists. 
Mr. Wheeler acknowledged helping Mr. Murray oppose the Obama-era Clean Power Plan, which the coal industry disliked because it required states to cut carbon emissions by shifting from coal power to natural gas and renewables over 15 years. He maintained, however that he is not obligated to recuse himself from working on a plan to replace that regulation. 
Mr. Wheeler also said, as he did in Congress during his confirmation hearing to be deputy administrator, that he had no direct involvement in crafting a series of controversial memos that Mr. Murray wrote. He acknowledged arranging and attending a March 2017 meeting with Secretary Perry at which Mr. Murray delivered his proposals, but said his only substantive involvement was looking at an early version. 
"I had no role in the writing or drafting of that memo," Mr. Wheeler said. "Murray is a pretty sophisticated lobbyist and they drafted their own memo and delivered it themselves." 
Mr. Murray also drafted a number of proposed executive orders for Mr. Trump, almost all of which deal directly with E.P.A. issues like eliminating a smog rule and rolling back requirements that states reduce the smokestack pollution that is carried by wind and fouls the air in other states. 
"I didn't work on those," Mr. Wheeler said. 
Mr. Murray declined interview requests to discuss Mr. Wheeler's work. At a recent public panel discussion in Washington, he said he believed Mr. Wheeler would do an "outstanding" job as E.P.A. administrator. "I didn't want to lose him, but the country has him," Mr. Murray said. "He's an honorable man." 
Follow @NYTClimate on Twitter 
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 

Photograph 
Andrew Wheeler, acting administrator of the E.P.A. His congressional disclosures described his lobbying only in general terms. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETE MAROVICH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) Copyright New York Times Company Aug 2, 2018 
Subject 	Regulation; 
Abandoned mines; 
Emissions; 

Power; 

Coal industry; 

Energy; 
Lobbyists; 

Political ethics; 
Executive orders; 

Environmental protection; 
Lobbying; 

User groups; 

Climate change 


People 	Wheeler, Andrew 
Company / organization 	Name: Congress 

NAICS: 921120 


URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/01/climate/andrew-wheeler-epa-lobbying.html 
Title  E.P.A. Chief Details Past Advocacy for Big Utilities and Mining Companies: [National Desk]  
Author  Friedman, Lisa  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.17  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Aug 2, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2081266775  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2081266775?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Aug 2, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-16  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 96 of 236 


Mexico Can Run On Clean Energy: [Op-Ed] 
Viscidi, Lisa; Graham, Nate.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]01 Aug 2018: A.23. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Mexico+Can+Run+On+Clean+Energy%3A+%5BOp­Ed%5D&title=New+York+Times&issn=03624331&date=2018-08­01&volume=&issue=&spage=A.23&au=Viscidi%2C+Lisa%3BGraham%2C+Nate&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Washington -- Mexican voters elected Andrés Manuel López Obrador president on July 1 largely based on his promises to solve the country's most devastating domestic problems: rampant violence, economic inequality and widespread corruption. Mr. López Obrador, however, also has the chance to catapult his country into a leadership role on an issue that will benefit both Mexico and the rest of the globe: climate change. 
Specifically, the president-elect can capitalize on Mexico's huge potential for renewable energy. But while he has made promising proposals for expanding renewables, he will confront several obstacles. 
Renewable energy accounts for less than a quarter of Mexico's installed power capacity, well below the Latin American average of about 50 percent; most electricity is generated from oil, coal and natural gas. Expanding renewable energy would not only cut Mexico's greenhouse gas emissions, but also reduce air pollution and diversify fuel sources, strengthening energy security. Mexico's wind potential is more than eight times its current level of installed wind capacity. It has among the largest solar resources in the world -- 75 times the country's current total installed capacity. 
Mr. López Obrador has announced ambitious plans to increase renewable power generation from both large-scale projects, such as hydroelectric dams, and small energy systems, like solar rooftops for residences and businesses, in a bid to cut natural gas imports from the United States. He's vowed to encourage local industries to produce parts for renewable energy plants through tax incentives and access to credit. And by the end of his six-year term he wants to see 100,000 electric cars on Mexican streets powered by solar energy. Over the course of his presidency, his proposals are estimated to reduce Mexico's emissions by 6.8 percent per year. 
These are the right areas of focus to accelerate the transition to low-carbon energy in Mexico, one of the planet's top 15 emitters. With the right policies, Mr. López Obrador could make Mexico the Western Hemisphere's leader in sustainable development, an opportunity declined by its northern neighbor when it withdrew from the Paris climate accord. 
To do so, the new government should build on the energy reform that President Enrique Peña Nieto signed into law in 2013. That law created important incentives to increase renewable energy, including opening the power sector to private investment and creating clean energy certificates, which power distributors must acquire to meet quotas. Encouraged by this initiative, private companies bidding for contracts in Mexico's post-reform renewable power auctions have offered some of the lowest electricity prices in the world. In 2015, Mexico was among the top 10 destinations in the world for new clean energy investment. 
Renewable energy developers still face hurdles, though. Mexico's electricity infrastructure is decrepit. Aging transmission lines mean more electricity is lost during transport and distribution than in high-income countries. Mexico's new government should hold auctions to award transmission and distribution projects to private companies and improve energy-system planning to integrate more variable energy sources (wind and solar) alongside firm energy sources (like natural gas or hydropower). 
While wind and solar prices in Mexico's recent auctions have hit record lows, other promising renewable energy technologies, such as geothermal, still cannot compete with fossil fuel sources. As renewable energy markets expand, bottlenecks in the local production of equipment and services could hinder competitiveness. To ensure renewables are competitive, the government should provide more incentives for emerging technologies as well as support for local equipment and service providers. 
Energy projects in Mexico also often face resistance from local communities. Much of the land is collectively owned, meaning developers must consult with dozens or even hundreds of people before beginning a project. This process often leads to long, expensive legal battles. 
In January, Mexico's Supreme Court ordered that a wind project in Oaxaca -- a state that is home to most of the country's wind projects and is 75 percent collectively owned -­be halted because of insufficient consultation with indigenous Zapotecs. The government should clarify the consultation process, take a stronger role in mediation and encourage projects in which local communities share ownership, benefit from the energy produced and are incorporated into the supply chain. 
On election night, Mr. López Obrador confessed his ambition to "go down in history as a good Mexican president." On the world stage, he surely would be remembered for transforming Mexico's energy matrix and setting an example for the transition to clean energy. While Mr. López Obrador has a full slate of problems to tackle when he takes office on Dec. 1, encouraging clean energy must be a priority. Both Mexicans and the international community will thank him. 
Lisa Viscidi is the director of the energy, climate change and extractive industries program at the Inter-American Dialogue, a Washington think tank, where Nate Graham is an assistant. 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion) , and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter . 
AuthorAffiliation 
Lisa Viscidi is the director of the energy, climate change and extractive industries program at the Inter-American Dialogue, where Nate Graham is an assistant. 
Illustration 
DRAWING (DRAWING BY ADAM McCAULEY) Copyright New York Times Company Aug 1, 2018 
Subject  Presidents;  
Election results;  
Alternative energy sources;  
Renewable resources;  
Clean technology;  
Political leadership;  
Energy policy;  
Climate change;  
Natural gas  
Location  Mexico  
People  Lopez Obrador, Andres Manuel  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/31/opinion/lpez-obrador-clean-energy.html  
Title  Mexico Can Run On Clean Energy: [Op-Ed]  
Author  Viscidi, Lisa; Graham, Nate  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.23  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Aug 1, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  2080488029  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2080488029?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Aug 1, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-16  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 97 of 236 



Pruitt Successor Tempers Mode For Dismantling E.P.A. Policies: [National Desk] 
Davenport, Coral.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]28 July 2018: A.1. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Pruitt+Successor+Tempers+Mode+For+Dismantling+E.P.A.+Policies%3A+%5BN 07-28&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Davenport%2C+Coral&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- In his first three weeks on the job, Andrew Wheeler, the acting head of the Environmental Protection Agency, has sought to halt two major efforts by his predecessor, Scott Pruitt, to roll back environmental regulations, arguing that the policies are legally vulnerable, according to people who have heard his reasoning. 
Mr. Wheeler's actions signal a strategic shift at the E.P.A., an agency at the heart of President Trump's push to strip away regulations on industry. Under Mr. Pruitt, who resigned July 5 under a cloud of ethics investigations, the agency pushed for ambitious but fast-paced rollbacks of environmental rules. At least a half-dozen of those have been struck down by federal courts. 
Mr. Wheeler, a former coal lobbyist who served as Mr. Pruitt's deputy, has brought a more disciplined approach to dismantling environmental rules. It is an approach that may take longer, but it may be more effective in standing up to the inevitable legal challenges. 
Prof. Richard L. Revesz, an expert in environmental law at New York University, said Mr. Wheeler was "trying to be more careful and less sloppy" than his former boss. "By taking time to improve the quality of the legal justifications, Wheeler may ensure that E.P.A. won't be subject to losing on certain types of policies," Professor Revesz said. 
On Thursday, Mr. Wheeler reversed Mr. Pruitt's final policy, a regulatory loophole that would have allowed more highly polluting trucks on the nation's roads. Mr. Pruitt's quickly executed and unorthodox move -- in which he told manufacturers that the agency would not enforce a cap on what are known as "glider" trucks, essentially vehicles with older and less efficient engines installed -- had already been temporarily blocked by a federal appeals court. 
Mr. Wheeler appeared to concede that it was unlikely to withstand legal challenge. 
Behind the scenes, Mr. Wheeler has clashed with other top administration officials as the White House prepares to unveil one of Mr. Trump's most consequential proposals, which would undo a major Obama-era environmental rule and let cars emit more planet-warming greenhouse gas emissions. 
Mr. Pruitt had signed off on the plan, but Mr. Wheeler fears that its legal and technical arguments are weak and that it will set up the Trump administration for an embarrassing courtroom loss, according to interviews with 11 people. 
A draft of the plan obtained by The New York Times proposes permitting more carbon dioxide pollution from cars and light trucks while challenging the right of California and other states to set their own, more restrictive state-level pollution standards. 
The 701-page draft, which was written by a team led by two Transportation Department officials, Jeffrey A. Rosen and Heidi King, asserts that the stricter Obama-era pollution rules are too costly. It also says the rules would lead to nearly 12,903 more deaths in road accidents from drivers in cars built through 2025 because, it says, more fuel-efficient cars are less safe since they are lighter. 
But the plan's release has been delayed by what one person familiar with the talks called "a nuclear war" between Mr. Wheeler on one side and Mr. Rosen and Ms. King on the other. 
Mr. Wheeler has sharply questioned the analysis of the auto fatality numbers, saying that if they are proven faulty, that will undermine the legal case for the rollback, according to people who have heard him make that argument. 
The Obama administration's analysis concluded that, over the lifetime of the regulations, there would be 107 fewer auto fatalities than if the rules had not been implemented. Chet France, a former E.P.A. staff member who worked on that analysis, said that it may be difficult for the Trump administration to make its case by disproving the Obama-era fatality numbers, which were peer-reviewed by several panels of experts. 
While people familiar with the talks described a feud between Mr. Wheeler and Mr. Rosen over how to proceed, Mr. Wheeler described the negotiations between the agencies as "business as usual." 
"This assertion of a 'nuclear war' is categorically false," he said in a statement. "Our efforts with DOT have been reflective of a robust and constructive interagency process that the American people expect -- and deserve -- when agencies are proposing rules of such consequence." 
For now, the White House is siding with Mr. Rosen. Mr. Trump is expected to announce the proposal next week. 
Under the Obama-era rules, automakers would be required to nearly double the fuel economy of passenger vehicles by 2025, achieving an average of about 54 miles per gallon, thus lowering oil consumption and greenhouse-gas pollution and representing the largest move by the United States to combat global warming. 
The Trump administration's "preferred option" for weakening the rule would allow mileage standards to rise as scheduled until 2020, at which point the standard would freeze at about 37 miles per gallon. 
The proposal would also challenge the authority of California and other states to set their own, tougher standards. California has a waiver under the 1970 Clean Air Act to set its own air pollution regulations, and a dozen other states follow its lead. If the Trump administration loosens federal pollution rules, California has vowed to stick with its own stricter standards and to sue the administration. 
That fight could, in effect, split the American car market in two, with one set of regulations for the federal government and a different set of regulations for California and the other states that follow its standard. That would set up a legal battle that would quite likely reach the Supreme Court. 
Both Mr. Trump and Mr. Pruitt appeared to relish the political prospect of a legal fight with California. Mr. Pruitt, who shared Mr. Trump's antipathy for government regulations, was prepared to sign off on the proposal despite the concerns of his staff about its legal vulnerability, according to people familiar with the negotiations. 
But since Mr. Wheeler stepped in, he has raised concerns about the legality of the proposal as it is written, according to at least four people familiar with the matter. Privately, even some auto executives have also asked Mr. Trump to pull back from such an aggressive rollback, fearing that the lawsuits it will create could lead to years of regulatory uncertainty. 
But Mr. Rosen, the deputy secretary of the Transportation Department, is confident that the proposal will stand up to legal challenge in part because of the changing makeup of the Supreme Court, according to a half-dozen people. With the retirement of the Supreme Court Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, who often served as a swing vote on the court, Mr. Trump has nominated a judge to succeed him, Brett Kavanaugh, who is considered more reliably conservative. 
Mr. Rosen, a lawyer whose former clients have included General Motors and Hyundai, served as general counsel for the Transportation Department during the George W. Bush administration, where he was known as an opponent of efforts to combat climate change and regulate auto pollution. The plan would strip away regulations that he has fought for years. 
"The thinking is, whatever they do to relax the standards, California will sue," said Myron Ebell, who led the Trump administration's E.P.A. transition team. "So why not go for the whole thing?" 
Jody Freeman, a professor of environmental law at Harvard and a former adviser to President Barack Obama, noted that previous efforts to pre-empt such state-level authority have failed. "We've never seen a state-level waiver being revoked, and it's not clear how that would work," Ms. Freeman said. 
Once the rule is made public, the E.P.A. and Transportation Department will take public comments before revising it and publishing a final rule this year. People who have spoken with Mr. Wheeler say they expect to see his more cautious approach reflected in a final rule that is less radical but more legally defensible. 
And they note that even as on Thursday Mr. Wheeler walked back Mr. Pruitt's move not to enforce pollution rules for "glider" trucks, he also wrote a memo saying that he intended to revisit the policy. 
"He didn't say, I'm abandoning this whole effort," Professor Revesz said. "The last sentence of his memo is essentially saying, 'We'll still proceed full steam ahead.' He's just going to find a way to proceed more cautiously. His style is different, but ultimately he's pursuing the same aim." 
Follow @NYTClimate on Twitter 

Photograph 
Andrew Wheeler is moving more slowly to cut rules than his predecessor, Scott Pruitt, moved. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETE MAROVICH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) Copyright New York Times Company Jul 28, 2018 
Subject 	Air pollution; 

Energy efficiency; 
Environmental law; 

Leadership; 

Environmental policy; 
Climate change; 
Environmental regulations; 

Regulatory reform 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Trump, Donald J; Wheeler, Andrew; Pruitt, Scott 
Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 

NAICS: 924110 


URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/27/climate/andrew-wheeler-epa.html 
Title 	Pruitt Successor Tempers Mode For Dismantling E.P.A. Policies: [National Desk] 
Author 	Davenport, Coral 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.1 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date  Jul 28, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2077313834  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2077313834?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Jul 28, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-16  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 98 of 236 


Island-Hopping in South Pacific, Before the Sea Floods Them Out: [Foreign Desk] 
Cave, Damien.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]27 July 2018: A.6. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Island­Hopping+in+South+Pacific%2C+Before+the+Sea+Floods+Them+Out%3A+%5BForeign+Desk%5D&title=New+York+Times&issn=03624331&date=2018-07­27&volume=&issue=&spage=A.6&au=Cave%2C+Damien&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
MAKARU ISLAND, Solomon Islands -- The first island David Tebaubau moved to 14 years ago has already disappeared, drowned by heaving currents and rising seas. 
"It used to be right there," he told me, pointing east to what simply looked like more ocean. "We thought everything was going to be O.K., but it's getting very hard." 
The spit of earth he currently occupies here in this remote stretch of the South Pacific is half the size it was when he arrived five years ago. At mid-tide, it's 24 steps across at 

its widest point, and 58 steps long (by my own walking count). 
At high tide it's even smaller, a teardrop of sand and coral with just enough room for his family and a few tons of the seaweed they grow offshore. 
It's that seaweed that keeps them here. The shallows near his island -- and two others nearby that have also been settled by farming families -- are perfect for a wiry breed 

that's exported across Asia. And Mr. Tebaubau, 50, a former mechanic with the calm voice and long beard of a sage, is especially adept at its cultivation. 
His earnings have already sent his children to private school on a larger island. To the neighboring seaweed farmers, he is not just a recluse. He is The Seaweed King. 
At least for as long as he has a kingdom. 
All three of the sandy islands here are being swept away by powerful currents and a rising ocean caused by climate change. Precarious and precious, life here is lovely, tropical 

and calm, but also akin to living in a bathtub with warm water pouring in and no drain to let it out. Ever. 
It's what you see in many parts of the Solomon Islands, a struggling, stunning country of around 900 islands and 570,000 people. 
Scientists call it a global hot spot. The surrounding seas have risen about 7 to 10 millimeters per year since 1993, roughly three times today's global average -- and what 

scientists expect across much of the Pacific by the second half of this century. 

Confronting such extremes, residents of many small villages on various islands have picked up and moved. Others, especially here on the three islands surrounded by lush seaweed, are doing everything they can to stay. "People talk about these islands being vulnerable, and along with that they tend to treat the human beings as vulnerable, too," said Simon Albert, a researcher at the University 
of Queensland in Australia who has written several papers on adaptation to climate change in the Pacific. "But in my view, they're the opposite -- they're strong and resilient." 
Maybe they're a bit stubborn, too -- but with cause. 
The families here are the children and grandchildren of migrants resettled by the British in the 1950s after their islands elsewhere in the Pacific suffered from extreme drought. 
They're not eager to move again. 
"They call us crazy for staying, but we just survive, ourselves," said Andrew Nakuau, 55, a farmer and community leader on Beniamina, where about 60 people live crammed 

together on an island no more than a few hundred meters wide. 
We were meeting at its center, in a small church at Beniamina's peak -- shin-high from the sea. I could see Makaru a short boat ride away. 
Small solar panels the size of a notebook shimmered on the roofs of the thatch-and-wooden homes clustered nearby. Washbins and buckets for rainwater, the only freshwater 

available, lined the island's pathways, thirsty for a storm. 
I asked Mr. Nakuau what it felt like to be so disconnected from the causes of climate change, with its cars and coal, but so close to its effects. 
He shrugged and walked me over to his own line of defense. 
To the left of an outhouse dangling over teal blue water, which used to be land, he pointed to a pile of coral rising several feet from the sand. It was held in place with wooden 

beams. 
"This is the second wall I've built," he said. "The first one was four years ago." 

He has also added a second floor to his home. 
When I saw a DVD player there, I asked if he had a favorite. "Rambo," he said. 
A few hours later, low tide, and work, returned. Most of the young men from the islands could be seen out in the water, piling seaweed into dugout canoes, or tying seedlings to 

underwater ropes. 
It was hot, equatorial hot, even in the water. 
When a thunderstorm rolled in, the men quickly moved their catch under tarps to protect it. 
Under one tent on Beniamina, nearly a dozen women were working together, laughing and chatting as the men carried seaweed in and children splashed nearby in the rain. 
Asked about the toughest part of living on the island, the women struggled for answers. 
"It's easier to get to know each other here," said Rakeua Angela, 58, a mother of six. 
Rarely, all agreed, does anyone cause trouble. Even drinking alcohol is against the rules; 20 lashes on the rear-end is the punishment, last meted out about a year ago, Mr. 

Nakuau said, to eight boys and two girls caught in a not-so-distant corner of their very small island. 

Cross-sea marriages are common (three of Mr. Tebaubau's children married into Beniamina families) and recreation is communal -- bingo nights for women around once a week, 
birthdays celebrated by all and, at dusk on most days, volleyball and music on Beniamina. 
The games are competitive, but joyful with a soundtrack moving from hip-hop to Abba. Watching the island's teenagers play during one particularly glorious evening, it was 

almost possible to believe that life here could continue forever, undisturbed. 
Except that in the distance were the dead gray trees that used to be on land, and the dark blue waves, crashing on the reef. 
None of the islanders, especially not the Seaweed King, seemed to notice. When we returned to Makaru, Mr. Tebaubau happily showed me his warehouse with the seaweed he 

planned to sell next. 
"I don't intend to move," he said. "Here there's no boss, you're the boss." 
His children were out. His own wall of coral stood tall. "We'll keep trying," he said, "trying to stand." 
Except for a few growling dogs, he was completely alone, tilting at the windmill of rising seas. 
Damien Cave is the Australia bureau chief. Sign up to his weekly Australia Letter to get news, conversation starters and local recommendations in your inbox. 


AuthorAffiliation 
Follow Damien Cave on Twitter: @damiencave 
Photograph 
David Tebaubau, above center, farms seaweed, as do Rakeua Angela, left, and Andrew Nakuau, right. "Here there's no boss, you're the boss," said Mr. Tebaubau, who lives on Makaru Island. Top, a farmer harvested seaweed off Beniamina, where about 60 people live on an island no more than a few hundred meters wide. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ADAM FERGUSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) Copyright New York Times Company Jul 27, 2018 
Subject 	Islands; 
Families & family life; 
Algae; 

Climate change 


Location 	Australia; New York; Asia; South Pacific; Solomon Islands 
Company / organization 	Name: New York Times Co 

NAICS: 511110, 511120, 515112, 515120; 


Name: University of Queensland NAICS: 611310; 
Name: Twitter Inc NAICS: 519130 
URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/26/world/asia/solomon-islands-south-pacific.html 
Title 	Island-Hopping in South Pacific, Before the Sea Floods Them Out: [Foreign Desk] 
Author 	Cave, Damien 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.6 
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Jul 27, 2018  
column  Solomon Islands Dispatch  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2076666669  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2076666669?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Jul 27, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-16  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 99 of 236 


Laos Dam Collapse Leaves Hundreds Missing and Homes Wiped Out: [Foreign Desk] 
Paddock, Richard C; Ives, Mike.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]25 July 2018: A.4. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Laos+Dam+Collapse+Leaves+Hundreds+Missing+and+Homes+Wiped+Out%3A 07-25&volume=&issue=&spage=A.4&au=Paddock%2C+Richard+C%3BIves%2C+Mike&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
BANGKOK -- The wall of water, unleashed by a dam failure, roared through a half-dozen rural villages in Laos, sweeping away hundreds of people in its torrents. 
On Tuesday, many of those people were nowhere to be found, and while only several people have been confirmed killed, Laotian officials feared the worst. 
The dam, which was still under construction, gave way on Monday, forcing nearly 7,000 people to flee their homes. 
Photos and videos from the scene showed murky, brown water covering a vast area, with residents seeking refuge on rooftops that barely remained dry. Others could be seen 

walking knee deep in water out of the flooded area or escaping on boats with only a few possessions in hand. 

The dam was part of a billion-dollar hydropower project that the Laotian government sees as critical for economic development. Opponents argued that the risks to local people and to fisheries did not justify the economic benefits. The failure of the structure, one of the smaller of more than a half-dozen dams being built on three tributaries of the Mekong River in Laos, released about 175 billion cubic feet 
of water, washing away homes in the southern province of Attapeu, near the border with Vietnam and Cambodia. 
The state news agency did not give an exact death toll, but it is feared the number will grow, with the search for victims in the devastated area still in its early stages. 
Though the flooding was widely described as a result of a dam collapse, the South Korean company building the dams, SK Engineering & Construction, said it was investigating 

whether the structure failed or whether water swept over it as a result of heavy rain. The rainfall was three times heavier than normal, according to the Yonhap News Agency in South Korea. 
The company sent helicopters, boats and personnel to aid rescue operations, the South Korean Foreign Ministry said in a statement. 
The project -- which includes three major dams in addition to at least three smaller auxiliary dams, or saddle dams, like the one that failed -- is designed to generate electricity 
from the water of three rivers, which all ultimately flow into the Mekong. 

The electricity is to be produced in southern Laos, but 90 percent is to be purchased by Thailand. The project, begun in 2013, was scheduled to begin operation next year. 
The damming of the Mekong and its tributaries has been highly controversial. 
The Mekong stretches about 2,700 miles from the Tibetan Plateau in China to the vast Mekong Delta of Vietnam, passing along the borders of Myanmar and Thailand and 

flowing through Laos, Cambodia and Vietnam before spilling into the South China Sea. 

China, Laos and Cambodia have begun massive hydroelectric development programs, with more than a dozen dams planned, under construction or completed on the main river and many more dams on tributaries. Laos, a landlocked, communist state that is largely isolated from the rest of the world, is one of Asia's poorest countries. Its leaders see harnessing hydroelectric power as key 
to growth. 
Opponents fear that damming the Mekong River will cause greater economic harm than good by destroying fisheries and damaging the delta's rich farming region, which depends on the flow of sediment from the upper stretches of the river. "If all of these projects are built. they will transform one of the world's most iconic rivers, and the second most biodiversity river globally, into a series of reservoirs," said the 
advocacy group International Rivers. 
The electricity the dams generate can serve growing urban populations and provide a financial boon for provincial officials, powerful militaries and giant conglomerates. 

International development agencies often agree to partially finance the dams, despite concerns about corruption, in part because hydroelectric power is seen as preferable to coal-power plants and other fossil fuel projects that contribute to global warming. But many independent studies have demonstrated that hydropower projects in Southeast Asia -- especially large ones -- directly contribute to erosion, the decimation of fish 
stocks and biodiversity, and the further impoverishment of rural communities that are forced to leave the dam sites and move to less-fertile land. 
The collapse of the dam Monday was not the first in Laos. Last year, a dam on the Nam Ao River that was being built as part of a hydropower project burst, although no deaths were reported after that accident. 
On Tuesday, the state news agency reported that Prime Minister Thongloun Sisoulith of Laos suspended a government meeting and led members of his cabinet to monitor rescue and relief efforts. 
The 410-megawatt dam is being built by the Xe-Pian Xe-Namnoy Power Company, a joint venture that includes two companies from South Korea, one from Thailand and one from Laos. 
SK E & C, one of those South Korean companies, is an affiliate of SK Group, one of South Korea's largest business conglomerates, and has built power plants at home and abroad. 
The project is expected to generate approximately 1,879 gigawatt hours of electricity a year, the Xe-Pian Xe-Namnoy Power Company says on its website. 
The phone lines of the Xe-Pian Xe-Namnoy Power Company's two offices in Laos were either busy or rang unanswered on Tuesday. 
Some residents whose villages were in the way of the hydropower project have resisted moving, saying the compensation they were offered was too small and the land they were offered was unsuitable for farming. 
In a 2013 letter to the power company, International Rivers said its staff had visited the resettlement zone for the dam and seen firsthand that people there were struggling "with a lack of access to sufficient food, water and land." 
"In addition, families have found that the shallow soil around their homes is inappropriate for growing vegetables, fruits or staple crops, and consistently attest to going hungry," the letter said. 
Credit: RICHARD C. PADDOCK and MIKE IVES; Choe Sang-Hun contributed reporting from Seoul, South Korea, and Muktita Suhartono from Jakarta, Indonesia. 
Photograph 
Survivors in the southern Laos province of Attapeu on Tuesday after a dam failed the day before. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ABC LAOS NEWS, VIA GETTY IMAGES) Copyright New York Times Company Jul 25, 2018 
Subject 	Dams; 

Electricity; 
Fisheries; 
Floods; 

Biological diversity; 

Rivers; 
Power plants; 
Hydroelectric power 


Location 	Southeast Asia; Cambodia; Thailand; Tibetan Plateau; Vietnam; Laos; Jakarta Indonesia; 

Mekong River; China; Asia; Myanmar (Burma); Indonesia; South China Sea; South Korea 


Company / organization 	Name: SK Group 

NAICS: 324110 


URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/24/world/asia/laos-dam-collapse-hundreds-missing.html 
Title 	Laos Dam Collapse Leaves Hundreds Missing and Homes Wiped Out: [Foreign Desk] 
Author 	Paddock, Richard C; Ives, Mike 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.4 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Jul 25, 2018 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	General Interest Periodicals--United States 
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2075330783  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2075330783?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Jul 25, 2018  
Last updated  2018-12-14  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 100 of 236 



After Fiasco, California Tries To Remake Power Grid Again: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Penn, Ivan.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]21 July 2018: B.1. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=After+Fiasco%2C+California+Tries+To+Remake+Power+Grid+Again%3A+%5BB 07-21&volume=&issue=&spage=B.1&au=Penn%2C+Ivan&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
LOS ANGELES -- Two decades ago, when California deregulated the delivery of electric power, lawmakers, regulators and even some environmentalists hailed the decision as a way to lower consumers' bills. 
The strategy proved disastrous. The plan resulted in an energy crisis that sent power bills soaring, prompted billions in penalties against utilities and banks for manipulating the new electricity market, and led Congress to enact laws to help prevent it all from happening again. 
Now the state's leaders have a new proposal for an energy makeover, this time to create a single authority to manage the electric grid for most or all of the West. This plan, too, promises to cut costs for consumers -- by as much as $1.5 billion a year -- while helping to bolster use of carbon-free power sources. 
Gov. Jerry Brown has made the plan a signature effort in the waning months of his tenure, pressing state legislators to enact it. California already receives power produced in other states, but Mr. Brown wants to create a single authority that would manage the flow of electrons across the region. 
"Implemented correctly," he has written of the plan, "a regional grid will enable greater renewable development, lower costs and carbon emissions, and improved electricity reliability." 
Critics, invoking the earlier fiasco, warn that the latest plan will again cost consumers and may even increase, not reduce, greenhouse gases. 
They worry that the proposal will actually increase the use of coal and natural gas at a time when California and hundreds of cities across the country are working toward producing 100 percent of their electricity without carbon emissions. 
Their concern is based on the potential partnership with some Western states like Wyoming that rely heavily on coal for power production. "It makes us very nervous that regionalization is going to accelerate coal use," said Matthew Freedman, the staff lawyer for the Utility Reform Network, a consumer-advocacy group based in San Francisco. 
The state's electricity grid is currently run by the California Independent System Operator. It oversees a market for companies looking to buy and sell power, and coordinates the flow of electricity by ordering utilities to put more onto the grid or to throttle back when it risks an overload. 
Although it is the largest in the West, California's electric grid manager is just one of 38 in the region. Under the new proposal, which is subject to federal approval, those that opt into the regional system would all operate under one electric grid manager. 
California would surrender its governor's right to appoint the agency's board members and the State Senate's role in confirming them. The current grid operator would devise a plan for selecting members of a new, wholly independent board. 
While California would yield some state control, the proposed shift is meant to increase efficiencies across the region, lowering the cost of generation. And backers say a single entity could apply a uniform clean-energy policy across more territory, carrying out Mr. Brown's vision on a wider scale. 
Assemblyman Christopher Holden, a Democrat from the Los Angeles area, sponsored the bill. As he sees it, President Trump's decision last year to withdraw the United States from the Paris climate agreement has given California a strong leadership role in helping to curb carbon emissions and address climate change. 
"To be able to address climate change, California can't do it by itself," Mr. Holden said. "Any other state that would want to participate, states that share our green renewable strategies, are welcome." 
It would be optional for utilities to turn their power management over to the new grid operator, but the prospect of efficiencies that could lower the cost of providing power -­potentially reducing consumer rates and increasing profits -- would be an incentive. 
"This is not either-or, it's not local versus regional -- it's getting the best out of both," said Ralph Cavanagh, staff lawyer for the Natural Resources Defense Council and a longtime proponent of the measure. "You will use the existing system more efficiently." 
For example, at certain times of the year, California produces more solar and wind energy than it can use, and must pay other states to take it to avoid overloading the system and causing blackouts. A regional grid would enable better coordination with other generation sources without additional payments. 
As for the potential for energy companies in coal states to send more power from fossil fuels to California customers, Mr. Cavanagh said market dynamics would preclude that, since the low cost of solar and wind energy is making other generation sources uncompetitive. "The operating cost of renewables is zero," he said. "The Trump administration has a coal agenda, and that's exactly why we should push back." 
But Mr. Trump's position on coal and other fossil fuels is exactly the reason that critics say this is the worst time to risk California's clean-energy goals by loosening its control. Because the regional operation has to be approved by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, and California is ceding more control of the operator, the new Western grid would be more firmly in the federal government's hands. 
California law mandates that at least 50 percent of the state's electricity generation come from carbon-free sources by 2030. Lawmakers are considering a separate bill that would increase the mandate to 100 percent. 
In a regional market, a significant potential player would be a utility called PacifiCorp, a unit of Warren E. Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway Energy. PacifiCorp operates in a half-dozen Western states, including Wyoming, which produces more than 80 percent of its electricity from coal, and Utah, where the share is almost 70 percent. 
"We see it as throwing a lifeline to those coal plants," said Travis Ritchie, a staff lawyer for the Sierra Club. "This whole thing really caught our attention because it was PacifiCorp. They were the ones who pushed grid regionalization." 
In addition, the bill excludes power generated from carbon-free sources outside California from counting toward renewable-energy goals. Danielle Osborn Mills, director of the American Wind Energy Association California Caucus, said that language could actually impede the move away from fossil fuels, and create an opening for coal-burning producers like PacifiCorp. 
"I think the way it is written now, there's a threat to the developing as well as existing renewables," Ms. Mills said. "It seems to run counter to the objectives to open the market." The bill's proponents say they are trying to address the issue, but at least for now, the provision remains. 
PacifiCorp says it has no position on the legislation. "It's not just California that would have to be comfortable, but the other states as well," said Bob Gravely, a company spokesman. "We would not be able to join if the other states that we operate in aren't comfortable." 
Michael J. Aguirre, a former federal prosecutor and a lawyer who worked on cases during the California energy crisis, said that with improved energy technology for individuals and businesses -- through sources like rooftop and community solar arrays, along with storage -- there was little advantage to consolidating grid operations. 
"We need to make our system more resilient by making it decentralized," he said. "It's the difference between having a bunch of centralized computers and a bunch of laptops." 
Mr. Freedman, of the Utility Reform Network, said California should carefully consider such a major move, saying it could be difficult to reverse because the federal government might not allow the state to return to its current grid structure if the new system fell short. 
"Once we go down this route, there's very little California can do to change it," he said. 

Photograph 
The grid control center of the California Independent System Operator in Folsom, Calif., which is one of 38 operators in the region. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICH PEDRONCELLI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B5) Copyright New York Times Company Jul 21, 2018 
Subject 	Clean technology; 

Electricity distribution; 
Emissions; 

Energy industry; 

Climate change; 
Cost reduction; 

Wind power; 

Fossil fuels; 
Carbon; 
Consumers; 

Coal 


Location 	Wyoming; San Francisco California; Utah; United States--US; Western states; California; 

Los Angeles California 


People 	Trump, Donald J 
Company / organization 	Name: Utility Reform Network 

NAICS: 813319; 

Name: Natural Resources Defense Council NAICS: 813312; 
Name: Berkshire Hathaway Energy NAICS: 221122; 
Name: Sierra Club NAICS: 813312; 
Name: Federal Energy Regulatory Commission--FERC NAICS: 926110, 926130; 
Name: PacifiCorp NAICS: 221122; 
Name: Congress 
NAICS: 921120; 
Name: Senate  
NAICS: 921120;  
Name: American Wind Energy Association  
NAICS: 541820  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/20/business/energy-environment/california-energy-grid-jerry-brown-plan.html  
Title  After Fiasco, California Tries To Remake Power Grid Again: [Business/Financial Desk]  
Author  Penn, Ivan  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.1  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Jul 21, 2018  
Section  B  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2072609587  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2072609587?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Jul 21, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-15  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 101 of 236 


Report Faults China's Pace In Curbing Its Emissions: [Foreign Desk] 
Wong, Edward.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]20 July 2018: A.7. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Report+Faults+China%27s+Pace+In+Curbing+Its+Emissions%3A+%5BForeign+ 07-20&volume=&issue=&spage=A.7&au=Wong%2C+Edward&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
China has become a global leader in policy and diplomacy on limiting the effects of climate change, but it still needs to take significant steps to curb its own carbon dioxide emissions, according to a report released on Thursday. 
The report, written by David Sandalow, a former United States energy official now at Columbia University, takes a broad look at emissions and coal use in 2017 in China, which is by far the world's top emitter of the heat-trapping gases that accelerate climate change. The study also analyses recent policy moves on climate by the country's government and by the Communist Party. 
China has wide-ranging climate policies, enshrined in the national Five-Year Plans and in blueprints at provincial and local levels. As a result, the report says, it is on its way to meeting major climate change goals, including lowering a measure known as carbon intensity, having carbon dioxide emissions reach a peak no later than 2030 and having a fifth of energy come from non-fossil-fuel sources by that year. 
At the same time, the report says, if China's carbon emissions continue at the current pace, nations will find it harder to meet important climate change policy goals -- most notably limiting the average global temperature increase to 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit, or 2 degrees Celsius, above preindustrial levels. 
Even if China's emissions decrease after 2030, that goal could be much harder to achieve unless they then drop rapidly. 
In 2017, China emitted 11.7 billion metric tons of heat-trapping gases, a quarter of the world's total. That included 9.2 billion metric tons of carbon dioxide, the gas most responsible for accelerated climate change, more than the total for the United States and the European Union combined. 
After two years of holding steady, China's carbon dioxide emissions increased in 2017, with leading estimates ranging from 1.4 percent to 4.1 percent growth, the report says. That was largely because it burned more coal, the main source of emissions. 
Coal consumption and emissions in China had flattened before 2017, giving hope to advocates of climate change policies worldwide. The increase dampened some of that optimism. 
Climate and energy researchers say it is always unclear at the time whether a country's carbon emissions are reaching a peak, with a definitive picture only emerging years later. That was true of the United States, which until recently was the world's largest carbon-dioxide emitter. Emissions in the United States peaked in 2007 before falling, according to a Norwegian research group. 
Chinese emissions tripled from 2000 to 2012, at a time when China was experiencing double-digit economic growth, in part driven by its entry into the World Trade Organization. 
Coal is the main energy source for power, manufacturing and construction in China. Whether the country can curb emissions quickly enough to make a notable difference in the global attempts to limit climate change will depend on how much officials there can change the economic structure and energy makeup. 
The Columbia report's author, Mr. Sandalow, worked as a senior official in the United States Department of Energy from 2009 to 2013. 
The report noted China's leadership role in global climate change diplomacy. "The Chinese government has been unwavering in its support for the Paris Agreement," it said. 
That agreement was negotiated in December 2015 and signed the next year, and China's vocal support during the process was a major factor in the successful diplomatic efforts. 
Last year, President Trump announced that the United States was withdrawing from the agreement, which had been widely praised as a signature global achievement during the Obama administration. President Xi Jinping of China has urged nations to remain committed to the agreement. 

AuthorAffiliation 
Follow Edward Wong on Twitter: @comradewong . Copyright New York Times Company Jul 20, 2018 
Subject Agreements; Emissions; 
Diplomacy; Carbon dioxide; Energy; Environmental policy; Climate change; Coal  
Location  United States--US; China  
People  Trump, Donald J; Xi Jinping  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Columbia University 611310;  
Name: NAICS:  Department of Energy 926130;  
Name: NAICS:  Twitter Inc 519130;  
Name: NAICS:  European Union 926110, 928120;  
Name: NAICS:  World Trade Organization 928120  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/19/world/asia/china-climate-change-report.html  
Title  Report Faults China's Pace In Curbing Its Emissions: [Foreign Desk]  
Author  Wong, Edward  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.7  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Jul 20, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2071994141  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2071994141?accountid=14902  

Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Jul 20, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-15  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 102 of 236 


Arrested in Scotland After Airborne Protest: [Foreign Desk] 
Yonette, Joseph.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]16 July 2018: A.7. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Arrested+in+Scotland+After+Airborne+Protest%3A+%5BForeign+Desk%5D&tit 07-16&volume=&issue=&spage=A.7&au=Yonette%2C+Joseph&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
LONDON -- The police in Scotland have arrested a 55-year-old man in connection with a paragliding protest timed to coincide with President Trump's arrival on Friday night for a weekend of golf. 
Footage shared by reporters on social media and by the website of the environmental group Greenpeace U.K. showed a paraglider unfurling a banner that read, "Trump Well Below Par" as the president and his entourage milled about the entrance of his Turnberry golf resort. 
On its website, Greenpeace U.K. wrote: "We've hit @realDonaldTrump where it hurts -- at his golf course. Trump does not believe in climate change. He's pulled the US out of the Paris Agreement, and is committed to burning more climate wrecking coal. We couldn't let him get away with a quiet game of golf ... #resist." 
The paraglider's actions came before thousands of protesters took to the streets of Edinburgh, the capital, and Glasgow on Saturday to rally against the American president, hoisting "Trump Baby" balloons, chanting slogans and carrying banners that read, "Dump Trump." 
He spent the weekend in Scotland before traveling to Finland for a meeting on Monday with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia. 
Assistant Chief Constable Mark Williams said in a statement, "Around 2,000 people were in Glasgow and approximately 250 were in Dundee on Friday evening, and a further 9,000 marched and took part in a rally in Edinburgh today." Organizers said tens of thousands had turned out across the nation. 
When Mr. Trump teed off at one of his golf courses on Saturday, surrounded by a phalanx of security officers, a group of protesters nearby unleashed a barrage of chants, including, "No Trump, no K.K.K., no racist U.S.A." 
The Scottish police said on Saturday that they were pursuing a paraglider who had breached the no-fly zone over the resort. On Sunday, they said in a statement that "a 55­year-old man has been arrested and has now been charged in connection with an incident when a powered parachute was flown in the vicinity of the Turnberry Hotel." 
The police said the suspect, whose name was not disclosed, would appear at Ayr Sheriff Court on Monday. No further information, including any possible charges, was released. 
A spokesman for Greenpeace on Sunday confirmed that an arrest had been made, but declined to comment further. 

Photograph 
A Greenpeace protester flying a paraglider over President Trump's Turnberry resort in Scotland. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN LINTON/PRESS ASSOCIATION, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) Copyright New York Times Company Jul 16, 2018 
Subject 	Golf; 
Presidents 


Location 	Russia; United States--US; Finland; Scotland; United Kingdom--UK; Edinburgh Scotland 
People 	Trump, Donald J; Putin, Vladimir 
Company / organization 	Name: Greenpeace 

NAICS: 813312, 813940 


URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/15/world/europe/uk-trump-paraglider.html 
Title 	Arrested in Scotland After Airborne Protest: [Foreign Desk] 
Author  Yonette, Joseph  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.7  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Jul 16, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2070073745  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2070073745?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Jul 16, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-15  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 103 of 236 


Irish Pass Bill to End Investments In Fossil Fuels: [Foreign Desk] 
Sengupta, Somini.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]13 July 2018: A.9. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Irish+Pass+Bill+to+End+Investments+In+Fossil+Fuels%3A+%5BForeign+Desk 07-13&volume=&issue=&spage=A.9&au=Sengupta%2C+Somini&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Ireland on Thursday moved to pull its public funds out of fossil fuels, a development that marks the most significant advance to date for a divestment campaign pushed by 
environmentalists worldwide. 
The lower house of Parliament passed a bill that requires the country's sovereign fund, valued at 8.9 billion euros, or about $10.4 billion, to move out of fossil fuels "as soon as 
practicable." 

An aide to Thomas Pringle, the member of Parliament who proposed the measure, said the bill had the support of Prime Minister Leo Varadkar and was expected to become law. 

When it does, Ireland will become the first country to formally pledge to divest from fossil fuels. 
The vote in the Irish Parliament follows a recommendation by Norway's central bank in late 2017 for its $1 trillion sovereign wealth fund to drop its oil company investments. 
While Norway, the largest oil producer in Europe, has not yet decided on whether to divest, the very suggestion is a signal of waning confidence in the future of the petroleum 
business by one of its major players. 

This month, the Church of England voted to sell its assets in fossil fuel companies that have not "aligned their business investment plans with the Paris Agreement" to reduce global warming. And just days before, the Pope summoned the heads of some of the world's largest oil companies and urged them to take swift action to avert climate change. 
Eamonn Meehan, executive director of Trocaire, an Irish environmental lobby that has pushed for the bill, said in a statement the measure was "both substantive and symbolic." "It will stop public money being invested against the public interest, and it sends a clear signal nationally and globally that action on the climate crisis needs to be accelerated urgently, starting with the phase-out of fossil fuels," he said. 
The original draft of the bill had called for full divestment within five years. It was subsequently amended to allow for more flexibility. 
On Twitter, Ireland's Green Party called it "a historic day." 
The bill now goes to the Irish Senate, which can delay but not reverse the decision of the lower house. 
The global divestment movement has urged universities, pension funds and national sovereign wealth funds to pull their money out of coal, oil and other fuels that contribute to 

the greenhouse gases responsible for global warming. It is similar to the campaign, led by university students in the 1980s, to get college funds to pull their money from apartheid South Africa. 
What impact divestment campaigns have on the share prices of fossil fuels is unclear. 
Among all European countries, Ireland fares poorly on its progress in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. A recent survey by Climate Action Network, a network of 
environmental groups funded partly by the European Commission, found that it ranked at the bottom of the list, second only to Poland. 

Mr. Varadkar, who took office in June, has said he wants Ireland "to be a leader in climate action." Copyright New York Times Company Jul 13, 2018 
Subject 	Sovereign wealth funds; 

Fossil fuels; 
Bills; 

Greenhouse effect; 
Climate change 


Location 	Ireland; South Africa; Poland; Norway; Europe 
People 	Varadkar, Leo Company / organization Name: European Commission NAICS: 928120; 
Name: Twitter Inc NAICS: 519130; 
Name: Climate Action Network  
NAICS: 813312;  
Name: Senate  
NAICS: 921120;  
Name: Church of England  
NAICS: 813110  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/12/climate/ireland-fossil-fuels-divestment.html  
Title  Irish Pass Bill to End Investments In Fossil Fuels: [Foreign Desk]  
Author  Sengupta, Somini  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.9  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Jul 13, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2068723386  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2068723386?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Jul 13, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-15  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 104 of 236 


Conservative Environmental Law Clinic Sues Itself in Battle for Control: [National Desk] 
Schwartz, John.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]12 July 2018: A.14. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Conservative+Environmental+Law+Clinic+Sues+Itself+in+Battle+for+Control% 07-12&volume=&issue=&spage=A.14&au=Schwartz%2C+John&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 

None available. 

Full Text 
FAIRFAX, Va. -- The Free Market Environmental Law Clinic has long sought to inject doubt into the public conversation about global warming. Now, the future of the group itself is in doubt. 
Its founders are battling in court over control of the group, as well as some $900,000 in its bank account. One of them, David Schnare, has been accused by his former allies of botching the group's tax-exempt status and of attempting to extort a quarter-million dollars from its coffers. 
It all comes at a time when Free Market -- which made a name for itself using the legal system to obtain climate scientists' emails -- should be ascendant. The Trump administration shares its views on environmental regulation and its dismissal of climate science. And Mr. Schnare, 70, was part of the Trump "beachhead team" at the Environmental Protection Agency during the transition between presidential administrations, though he did not last long there. 
Mr. Schnare, in an interview, initially expressed reluctance to discuss the situation at Free Market. "Attorneys are not supposed to talk about and try cases in the press," he said. Then he added, "I completely deny all these nasty accusations." 
The legal battle sprawls across three civil lawsuits filed against Mr. Schnare by Matthew Hardin, 28, the chairman of Free Market's board. Neither side recognized the other's claim of control, so the fight began with Free Market essentially suing itself. 
If that sounds confusing, it certainly was to Chief Judge Bruce D. White of Fairfax County Circuit Court. "We have a plaintiff and defendant who are the same party," he said at a brief hearing here last month. "That's not something I see every day." 
Judge White said he would consolidate the cases under a single judge who, he seemed relieved to say, would not be himself. The parties were due back in court this week, but entered into settlement talks as this article neared publication. 
'Fighting the conservative fight' 
The litigation, which was first reported by The Daily Beast, pits two former partners against each other: Mr. Schnare and Christopher Horner, another lawyer who has worked to discredit climate scientists. The two worked together when Mr. Horner was a senior legal fellow at a related organization, the Energy & Environment Legal Institute. Now Mr. Horner, 53, is aligned with Mr. Hardin in the battle over Free Market. 
The efforts by Mr. Schnare and Mr. Horner to obtain climate scientists' emails followed a trail blazed in 2009 in an episode known as Climategate, when hackers exposed a trove of private messages between scientists. Global warming denialists took the blunt discussions out of context to allege that researchers had tampered with data, but subsequent investigations found no evidence of fraud. 
Mr. Schnare and Mr. Horner have tried to legitimize the process by using freedom of information laws to pursue document releases in a half-dozen states. The Virginia Supreme Court rejected one such request in 2014, saying it would cause "impairment of free thought and expression" at the University of Virginia. Another case is likely to reach the Arizona Supreme Court before long. 
Mr. Schnare founded Free Market with Mr. Horner in 2011 as a legal group working with E&E. Free Market has since earned tens of thousands of dollars from legal fees and penalties assessed against government agencies for not speedily or fully responding to freedom of information filings. 
Mr. Schnare took a leave of absence in January 2017 to join the Trump administration's transition team at the E.P.A. He had previously worked at the agency for 33 years, until 2011, "fighting the conservative fight" from within, as he put it in a message to a colleague. Mr. Schnare does not deny that climate change is occurring, but has questioned the potential impacts and the costs of fighting it and has criticized those who disagree as alarmists. 
His return to the E.P.A. was brief; he resigned within two months after clashing with Scott Pruitt, then the administrator, over issues like Mr. Pruitt's proposal for a "red team, blue team" exercise to debate climate change, which Mr. Schnare said displayed "ignorance of the scientific progress or science itself." 
'Some significant errors' 
But when Mr. Schnare tried to return to Free Market, Mr. Hardin told him he was not welcome. By then, it had become clear that Mr. Schnare had made an enormous error when he created the group: He had applied for status with the Internal Revenue Service that would let Free Market accept tax-free donations, but he had created the organization as a limited liability company, which cannot normally be tax-exempt. 
Mr. Schnare acknowledged in a letter to Free Market's board last December that he had "made some significant errors." But the lawsuit states that Mr. Schnare offered conflicting explanations and produced "different versions of organizational documents, as circumstances dictated." The suit suggests that those papers, some filed with the court, were faked. 
An outside lawyer warned Free Market that the I.R.S. could force the group to return contributions, require donors to amend their tax returns and expose Free Market to legal liability. He advised dissolving the group, a resolution favored by Mr. Hardin and Mr. Horner, who created a new group that would get Free Market's money. But the disposition of the Free Market bank account, which was tied to Mr. Schnare's Social Security number, is still in contention. 
Discussions reached a breaking point in January, during a meeting between Mr. Hardin, Mr. Schnare and Chaim Mandelbaum, a lawyer Mr. Schnare had installed as executive director of Free Market before his brief return to the E.P.A. 
According to Mr. Hardin's suit, Mr. Mandelbaum suggested that the "Democratic attorney general of Virginia" would love to investigate the conservative group, and Mr. Schnare demanded "approximately a quarter of a million dollars in order to 'keep things quiet,"' including money to buy out Mr. Mandelbaum's contract, along with an agreement that they would not be sued. 
In a recording of the meeting reviewed by The New York Times, Mr. Schnare can be heard saying that if Mr. Hardin and Mr. Horner did not comply, he could take control of the money. But, he added, "that's not what I want to have to go in front of a judge and have to deal with." 
After that meeting, Mr. Hardin, who also serves as commonwealth's attorney for Greene County, Va., alerted the I.R.S. to the group's problems. 
Mr. Hardin and Mr. Horner declined to comment. Mr. Mandelbaum said he did not recall making the comment about the Virginia attorney general. "All I can say is I believe their allegations are without merit," he said. 
'We need that money back' 
Free Market does not disclose its donors, though ties to fossil fuel companies have emerged. In 2015, The Intercept reported that a bankruptcy filing by Alpha Natural Resources, a major coal company, listed payments to Free Market and to Mr. Horner. Mr. Horner is also a senior fellow at the Competitive Enterprise Institute, which receives support from the fossil fuel industry. 
DonorsTrust, a conservative group that provides an avenue for anonymous donations, had an attorney present at the Fairfax County hearing last month. Lawson R. Bader, its chief executive, said in an interview that his group was an "interested party" not taking sides. If a donation "has been made under false pretenses, that is a problem," Mr. Bader said. "We need that money back." 
Some of Mr. Schnare's targets are also watching the case. Michael E. Mann, a climate scientist at Pennsylvania State University who has long been a focus of Mr. Schnare's legal maneuvers, said in an email that he had been following the fight with "some interest (and not a little bit of schadenfreude)." 
Lauren Kurtz, executive director of the Climate Science Legal Defense Fund, which supports scientists in legal battles, said that while the conservative groups had pursued researchers' emails in the name of transparency, there had been "complete lack of transparency in how they were running their own organization." 
Mr. Schnare said the lawsuit should never have happened. "We're going to waste a whole lot of money that could have been used to do good things," he said. "It will end; I just don't know whether I will have lost my mind by then." 

Photograph 
David Schnare, center, a founder of the Free Market Environmental Law Clinic, with Scott Pruitt. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN WALSH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) Copyright New York Times Company Jul 12, 2018 
Subject 	Limited liability companies; 
Scientists; 
Free markets; 

Researchers; 

Court hearings & proceedings; 
Environmental law; 

Climate science; 
Climate change; 
Judges & magistrates 


Location 	New York; Arizona; Pennsylvania; Virginia 
People 	Pruitt, Scott 
Company / organization 	Name: New York Times Co 

NAICS: 511110, 511120, 515112, 515120; 


Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA NAICS: 924110; 
Name: Daily Beast NAICS: 519130; 
Name: Pennsylvania State University NAICS: 611310; 
Name: Supreme Court-Arizona NAICS: 922110; 
Name:  University of Virginia  
NAICS:  611310;  
Name:  Competitive Enterprise Institute  
NAICS:  813910;  
Name:  Internal Revenue Service--IRS  
NAICS:  921130;  
Name:  Alpha Natural Resources Inc  
NAICS:  212112;  
Name:  Supreme Court-Virginia  
NAICS:  922110  


URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/11/climate/climate-emails-group-lawsuit.html  
Title  Conservative Environmental Law Clinic Sues Itself in Battle for Control: [National Desk]  
Author  Schwartz, John  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.14  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Jul 12, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2068212423  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2068212423?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Jul 12, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-16  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 105 of 236 


New E.P.A. Chief Rejects Pruitt's Management Style, but Not His Policies: [National Desk] 
Lipton, Eric.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]12 July 2018: A.15. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=New+E.P.A.+Chief+Rejects+Pruitt%27s+Management+Style%2C+but+Not+His+ 07-12&volume=&issue=&spage=A.15&au=Lipton%2C+Eric&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- The Environmental Protection Agency's new boss, Andrew R. Wheeler, has unlocked the entrance to the third-floor administrator's suite -- which had been closed tight during the tenure of his predecessor, Scott Pruitt. Mr. Wheeler, who started Monday after Mr. Pruitt's resignation, has also reduced his security detail and provided faster public updates to his daily schedule of events. 
And on Wednesday, in remarks to agency employees, Mr. Wheeler -- who spent four years himself as an E.P.A. staff member in the 1990s -- told them he wants their advice. That is a stark difference from Mr. Pruitt, who was known to be deeply suspicious of the agency's career staff. 
"When it comes to leadership, you can't lead unless you listen," Mr. Wheeler told a room of about 200 employees on Wednesday. 
Even as he has shown no sign of veering from Mr. Pruitt's course on environmental policy, Mr. Wheeler so far appears to be ushering in a change in style. His agency's interactions with the public, and its own employees, seem to be returning to a posture more consistent with past Republican and Democratic administrations after Mr. Pruitt's contentious and scandal-plagued tenure. 
For example, the agency has returned to issuing regular notices of the administrator's public appearances and upcoming policy announcements, and it has assured journalists that not only conservative news media will be invited to these events. The agency also intends to hold policy briefings to explain changes it is rolling out on matters like the Clean Power Plan, President Barack Obama's signature climate change regulation that Mr. Wheeler will seek to rewrite, and other new policies. 
The drive to roll back Obama-era clean air and clean water regulations has not changed under Mr. Wheeler, nor has his commitment, he said, to try to give states more power to handle enforcement matters, as Mr. Pruitt had championed. 
For example, the agency made clear on Wednesday that it does not intend to reverse an order made late Friday -- Mr. Pruitt's final day -- that created a loophole for so-called super polluting trucks, a move that environmental groups called illegal and will almost certainly challenge in court. 
The move -- which will allow a significant expansion of the manufacturing of trucks that produce up to 55 times as much air pollution as trucks with modern emissions controls ­
- will "avoid undue hardship to members of the regulated community," Molly Block, an E.P.A. spokeswoman, said Wednesday in a statement. 
But Mr. Wheeler, in his remarks on Wednesday from a room named after Rachel Carson, a marine biologist who helped start the modern environmental movement in the United States 56 years ago with her book "Silent Spring," made clear that he realizes that he has to overcome some preconceptions about his background. He worked for the past nine years as a lobbyist whose clients included Murray Energy, a coal company, with a long list of matters pending before the E.P.A. 
As his remarks were broadcast live on the internet and transmitted to agency regional offices around the country, Mr. Wheeler told E.P.A. employees that he is proud of the work he did on behalf of Murray Energy. His grandfather, Mr. Wheeler said, was a coal miner during the Great Depression, and one of the issues he worked on for Mr. Murray, he said, was a bill intended to ensure that retired miners received health care benefits. 
"I did work for a coal company, and I'm not at all ashamed of the work I did," Mr. Wheeler said. "As employees of the agency, you need to know that about me." 
John Konkus, an E.P.A. spokesman, said in a statement said Mr. Wheeler did not lobby the agency when he worked for Murray Energy, and has not lobbied it at all in the past two years. 
Mr. Wheeler, who had served as the agency's deputy administrator since April, also took on the other elephant in the room: the abrupt departure of Mr. Pruitt amid a crush of ethics scandals regarding his spending, management of the agency and use of government resources. 
Noting that he has been through agency transitions before, Mr. Wheeler said, "I want you to know I understand how stressful that can be." 
He pledged to consult with the agency's staff on policy changes -- a promise that agency employees said they would be carefully watching. 
"My instinct will be to defend your work, and I will seek the facts from you before drawing conclusions," Mr. Wheeler said. 
One of the starkest signs of the shift is the continued departure of some of Mr. Pruitt's top aides, such as Jahan Wilcox, who is returning to Republican Party politics, and who earned a reputation for his confrontational approach to interacting with the news media, calling one reporter for The Atlantic "a piece of trash," and threatening to call the police after reporters declined to leave an event Mr. Pruitt was at in North Dakota. 
Tamue Gibson, a biologist who has worked at the E.P.A. for 16 years, said she felt Mr. Wheeler's speech was a drastic improvement from Mr. Pruitt's and said she left encouraged by his attitude toward the agency and its work. 
"He understands our role as being vital to the world," she said. "We're very optimistic." 
Not everyone was impressed. Denise D. Morrison, the head of the federal employees union, called Mr. Wheeler's remarks "a superficial attempt to plug the leaks and quell the dissent." 
William K. Reilly, a former administrator of the E.P.A. under President George Bush, said he thought Mr. Wheeler could be an effective leader as long as he continued to distinguish himself from his predecessor. 
"He really needs to show that 'I am not Pruitt. I am not going to embarrass you by my personal behavior. You may not like some of the decisions that I make, but they will be made responsibly and with respect for process,"' Mr. Reilly said. "I think if he does that, he can probably be successful." 

Photograph 
Andrew R. Wheeler, the acting chief of the Environmental Protection Agency, spoke to staff members on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETE MAROVICH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) Copyright New York Times Company Jul 12, 2018 
Subject 	News media; 
Federal employees; 

Air pollution; 

Environmental protection; 
User groups; 

Coal; 
Management styles 


Location 	North Dakota; New York; United States--US 
People 	Wilcox, Jahan; Reilly, William; Carson, Rachel; Pruitt, Scott; Obama, Barack 
Company / organization 	Name: New York Times Co 

NAICS: 511110, 511120, 515112, 515120; 


Name: Republican Party NAICS: 813940; 
Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA NAICS: 924110 
URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/11/us/politics/epa-andrew-wheeler.html 
Title 	New E.P.A. Chief Rejects Pruitt's Management Style, but Not His Policies: [National Desk] 
Author 	Lipton, Eric 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.15 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Jul 12, 2018 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	General Interest Periodicals--United States 
ISSN 	03624331 
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2068212140  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2068212140?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Jul 12, 2018  
Last updated  2019-06-03  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 106 of 236 


There Was Change at Top But Agenda Is the Same: [National Desk] 
Plumer, Brad.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]07 July 2018: A.13. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=There+Was+Change+at+Top+But+Agenda+Is+the+Same%3A+%5BNational+D 07-07&volume=&issue=&spage=A.13&au=Plumer%2C+Brad&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Scott Pruitt is gone. But the big regulatory rollbacks he set in motion at the Environmental Protection Agency are still very much alive. 
The E.P.A.'s new acting administrator, Andrew Wheeler, will pick up where Mr. Pruitt left off, working to scale back rules on power plant emissions, vehicle standards and water pollution. Environmentalists have already vowed to fight these moves. 
In substance, at least, Mr. Wheeler is expected to closely resemble his predecessor, carrying out President Trump's wishes to dismantle Obama-era climate policy and reorient the E.P.A. in a more industry-friendly direction. But Mr. Wheeler's low-key style and deep familiarity with Washington -- he was an E.P.A. official and a Senate Republican staff member for nearly two decades before becoming an energy lobbyist in 2009 -- could make him more effective at deregulation than Mr. Pruitt, observers said. 
"Pruitt was certainly interested in the politics of these issues, but he was not always as involved in the policymaking," said Jeffrey R. Holmstead, a partner at the firm Bracewell and a former E.P.A. air chief. "Whereas Andy understands how to work with E.P.A. staff to get things done. He's much more interested in the day-to-day work of the agency." 
Here are five big E.P.A. policy battles that lie ahead under Mr. Wheeler's tenure: 
1. Shrinking Obama's Signature Climate Policy 
In 2015, President Barack Obama finalized the Clean Power Plan, a sweeping rule to cut carbon dioxide emissions from coal-fired power plants and the centerpiece of his plan to tackle global warming. President Trump, who called the plan "stupid" and "job-killing," ordered a repeal, and Mr. Pruitt formally began to undo it in October. 
The E.P.A. is still legally obligated to regulate greenhouse gas emissions. So, under Mr. Pruitt, the agency drafted a much weaker alternative to the Clean Power Plan that would require only modest tweaks to existing coal plants. This proposal still has to go through public comment and review before it can be finalized, and environmental organizations have said they will challenge it in court. 
Some conservatives have urged the E.P.A. to take a bigger step and refuse to regulate greenhouse gases altogether, by overturning a 2009 legal opinion known as the endangerment finding. But Mr. Wheeler, who has questioned the established science on climate change, appeared to shy away from this option during his Senate confirmation hearing for his current post, telling Democrats he considered the finding "settled." 
2. Fighting With California Over Vehicle Standards 
The E.P.A. has also been working with the Transportation Department to loosen Obama-era rules on greenhouse gas emissions from cars and light trucks. Their proposal, which is under review by the White House, would seek to halt any rise in fuel-economy standards after 2021 and rescind California's authority to set its own, tougher standards for automobiles. 
California has vowed to challenge this move in court, and some automakers have expressed unease at a legal fight that could drag on for years and potentially fracture the nation's vehicle market. One question is whether Mr. Wheeler will try to negotiate a compromise with California and other states in order to avoid risky litigation. 
"This will be an early test," said Jody Freeman, a law professor at Harvard who was the counselor for energy and climate change in the Obama White House. "Does he follow Pruitt and take a big legal risk by aggressively going after California? Or does he try to pull back in search of a deregulatory result that everyone can live with?" 
3. Scaling Back the Clean Water Rule 
Last year, Mr. Pruitt signed a proposal to pare back an Obama-era regulation known as the Waters of the United States rule, which sought to clarify which streams and wetlands get automatic protection under the Clean Water Act. Farmers and developers had criticized the Obama-era policy as overly intrusive, and Mr. Pruitt sought to suspend the rule while writing a new, much narrower regulation that would extend protections to fewer waterways. 
But that proposal faces an uncertain fate in the courts: In drafting a replacement, Mr. Pruitt's E.P.A. planned to follow guidelines laid out by Justice Antonin Scalia in 2006 -- in an opinion that did not receive majority support on the Supreme Court. Mr. Wheeler will be tasked with trying to write a regulation that is legally defensible. 
4. Changing the E.P.A.'s Use of Science 
In April, Mr. Pruitt unveiled a proposal to change the way the E.P.A. relies on scientific research, by limiting the use of studies in which the underlying data is not publicly available. Scientific researchers criticized the move, noting that the proposal could exclude some of the most important studies available on the harms from air pollution or pesticides, because those studies frequently redacted confidential health information about their participants. 
Mr. Wheeler is expected to move forward on this policy, but he may be forced to make changes. Several business groups, including pesticide makers and the National Association of Home Builders, recently expressed worry that Mr. Pruitt's proposal was overly broad. 
5. Finding a Compromise on Biofuels 
Before his resignation, Mr. Pruitt came under fire from a number of Senate Republicans -- not because of his ethics issues, but because of ethanol. 
In recent months, Mr. Pruitt exempted more than two dozen small oil refineries from a mandate to use renewable fuels, like ethanol made from corn. Behind the scenes, he also worked to revise the E.P.A.'s biofuels rules to lighten the burden on the oil industry. But those moves provoked the ire of corn-state senators like Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, who threatened to call for Mr. Pruitt's resignation. 
Some experts think that Mr. Wheeler may try to steer clear of this fight altogether. In a research note to clients on Thursday, analysts at ClearView Energy Partners wrote that the E.P.A. could now be less inclined to revamp the biofuels mandate and offer exemptions to small refineries, "particularly after the quagmire these decisions created." 

Photograph 
Outside the offices of the Environmental Protection Agency. President Trump's allies at the agency are expected to stick to the plan of deregulation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BILL O'LEARY/THE WASHINGTON POST, VIA GETTY IMAGES); Andrew Wheeler Copyright New York Times Company Jul 7, 2018 
Subject  Resignations; Petroleum refineries; Biodiesel fuels; Greenhouse gases; Deregulation; Emissions; Presidents; Coal-fired power plants; Environmental protection; Environmental policy; Climate change; Industrial plant emissions  
Location  United States--US; California; Iowa  
People  Trump, Donald J; Wheeler, Andrew; Grassley, Charles E; Scalia, Antonin; Pruitt, Scott; Obama, Barack  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 924110;  
Name: NAICS:  Senate 921120;  
Name: NAICS:  National Association of Home Builders 813910;  
Name: NAICS:  Energy Partners Ltd 324110  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/06/climate/pruitt-wheeler-epa.html  
Title  There Was Change at Top But Agenda Is the Same: [National Desk]  
Author  Plumer, Brad  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.13  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Jul 7, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  

Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2065239626  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2065239626?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Jul 7, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-14  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 107 of 236 


E.P.A. Drafts New Rule To Regulate Coal Plants: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Friedman, Lisa; Plumer, Brad.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]06 July 2018: B.4. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=E.P.A.+Drafts+New+Rule+To+Regulate+Coal+Plants%3A+%5BBusiness%2FFina 07-06&volume=&issue=&spage=B.4&au=Friedman%2C+Lisa%3BPlumer%2C+Brad&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- The Trump administration has drafted a new proposal to regulate carbon dioxide emissions from coal-fired power plants, one that is far less stringent than the climate plan finalized in 2015 by former President Barack Obama. 
In writing the new rule to replace Mr. Obama's Clean Power Plan, the Trump administration is essentially accepting, for now, that the federal government is legally obligated to take action to address the greenhouse gases that cause global warming, even as President Trump has dismissed established climate science. But the new proposal is likely to spur only small tweaks to the nation's energy system. 
Details of the plan, which is being drafted by the Environmental Protection Agency and is expected to be sent to the White House for approval in coming days, were described to The New York Times by industry officials who have worked closely with the agency to shape the rule. 
Allison D. Wood, a partner at Hunton & Williams who represents several electric utilities, described it as "very significant" that the administration was putting forward a regulation that acknowledged the obligation to regulate planet-warming emissions. 
The proposal, according to industry attorneys familiar with the plan, would recommend regulating the emissions of individual coal plants, which would call for modest upgrades, such as improving efficiency or substituting fuel. That contrasts with the more ambitious goals of the Clean Power Plan, which encouraged utilities to make broader systemic changes to cut emissions, such as switching from coal to natural gas or renewable power. 
The move comes as Scott Pruitt, the administrator of the E.P.A., faces fresh questions about his tenure. Mr. Pruitt is the subject of 13 federal investigations into his ethics, spending and management practices. John F. Kelly, the White House chief of staff, has urged his departure. Still, Mr. Pruitt enjoys a strong relationship with President Trump. If Mr. Pruitt were to resign, several people close to him said, it would likely be on a high note after a significant regulatory victory. 
A new plan to address emissions from power plants might, perhaps incongruously, fit that bill. 
Last October, when Mr. Pruitt announced that he would formally repeal the Clean Power Plan, industry leaders applauded the move. But behind the scenes, they also urged Mr. Pruitt to put forward a replacement, preferably one far weaker than the original. 
The reasoning was twofold. Many companies worried that simply repealing the climate rule without offering a substitute would not hold up in court -- and could leave an opening for even tougher regulations under a future Democratic president. But some companies also wanted to signal that they took climate change seriously. 
"The climate issue is, we think, here to stay, so we do think it makes sense to have some sort of regulation," said John M. McManus, senior vice president of environmental services at American Electric Power, one of the country's biggest electric companies. 
For months, Mr. Pruitt -- who had made a name for himself as attorney general of Oklahoma for opposing Mr. Obama's climate policies -- was skeptical of the benefit of crafting a replacement. Robert E. Murray, a mining executive and a longtime Trump donor, asserted that the E.P.A. should instead challenge the entire legal foundation for regulating greenhouse gases, a 2009 agency ruling known as the endangerment finding. 
"Virtually everyone who cares about this issue has argued otherwise," said Jeffrey R. Holmstead, a partner at the firm Bracewell and a former E.P.A. air chief. "Industry believes the E.P.A. has an obligation to regulate CO2 from power plants, and they would be better off with a replacement rule." 
Ultimately, Mr. Pruitt chose that path, and the E.P.A. crafted a new plan that would technically regulate carbon dioxide without forcing major changes on the industry. Among other things, the new proposal would give states significant leeway in enforcing the rules. Industry attorneys said they expected it to borrow elements from a proposal Mr. Pruitt himself drafted for Oklahoma in 2014, in the course of challenging the Obama administration's plan. 
Michael Abboud, an E.P.A. spokesman, declined a request to discuss the proposal. 
In a statement, Mr. Murray said that he would have preferred to see the Clean Power Plan scrapped with no replacement, but that any new plan should ensure "reliable, low-cost and fuel-secure electricity in America" and preserve coal mining jobs. 
Before joining the E.P.A., Andrew Wheeler, the current deputy E.P.A. administrator, worked as a lobbyist for Mr. Murray. 
While details of the Trump administration's proposal are not yet public, in the past environmental groups have argued that a narrower regulation would bring little to no benefit for the climate or clean air. 
The original Obama-era Clean Power Plan aimed to cut emissions from the nation's power plants roughly 32 percent below 2005 levels by 2030. But as market forces have pushed hundreds of coal plants into retirement and as wind and solar power have become cheaper, many states are now on track to exceed those initial targets even in the absence of federal regulation. As a result, many environmentalists contend that the original rules were too weak, not too aggressive. 
"We should be taking advantage of the falling cost of clean energy and the fast pace of market change to require even greater reductions, not write a standard that is intended to do nothing," said David Doniger, director of the Climate and Clean Energy Program at the Natural Resources Defense Council. 
Once the E.P.A. proposal is formally published, it will need to go through a public comment period before being finalized. The agency is hoping to complete the new rule by early 2019. After that happens, the agency intends to finalize its formal repeal of the Clean Power Plan. Environmental groups and several states have already pledged to challenge those moves in federal court. 
Photograph 
Power lines in Wasco, Ore. An E.P.A. plan would call for modest upgrades at individual coal plants. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) Copyright New York Times Company Jul 6, 2018 
Subject 	Electricity distribution; 
Emissions; 

Clean technology; 

Federal regulation; 
Coal mining; 

Presidents; 
Environmental policy; 
Climate change; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Greenhouse gases; 
Regulatory agencies; 

Coal-fired power plants; 
Environmental protection 


Location 	New York; Oklahoma 
People 	Trump, Donald J; Pruitt, Scott; Obama, Barack; Wheeler, Andrew; Kelly, John F; Lee, Chang W 
Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 

NAICS: 924110; 

Name: Natural Resources Defense Council 

NAICS: 813312; 

Name: New York Times Co 

NAICS: 511110, 511120, 515112, 515120; 


Name: Hunton & Williams 

NAICS: 541110; 

Name: American Electric Power Co Inc 

NAICS: 221122, 551112 


URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/05/climate/clean-power-plan-replacement.html 
Title 	E.P.A. Drafts New Rule To Regulate Coal Plants: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Author 	Friedman, Lisa; Plumer, Brad 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	B.4 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Jul 6, 2018 
Section 	B 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2064702402  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2064702402?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Jul 6, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-14  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 108 of 236 



Steady Hand in Washington, Known for Quietly Whittling Away at the Rulebook: [National Desk] 
Davenport, Coral.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]06 July 2018: A.13. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Steady+Hand+in+Washington%2C+Known+for+Quietly+Whittling+Away+at+th 07-06&volume=&issue=&spage=A.13&au=Davenport%2C+Coral&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- The departure of Scott Pruitt, the scandal-plagued former head of the Environmental Protection Agency, means that the agency will be led in the coming months by Mr. Pruitt's deputy, Andrew Wheeler, a former coal lobbyist who shares Mr. Pruitt's zeal to undo environmental regulations. 
But unlike Mr. Pruitt -- who had come to Washington as an outsider and aspiring politician, only to get caught up in a swirl of controversy over his costly first-class travel and security spending -- Mr. Wheeler is viewed as a consummate Washington insider who avoids the limelight and has spent years effectively navigating the rules. 
For that reason, Mr. Wheeler's friends and critics alike say, he could ultimately prove to be more adept than his controversial former boss in the job. 
"Many worry Wheeler will be more effective at implementing Trump's anti-environmental agenda than Pruitt was," said Paul Bledsoe, a former Clinton White House climate adviser, in the wake of the departure. 
On Thursday afternoon, President Trump tweeted that he had accepted Mr. Pruitt's resignation and that Mr. Wheeler would take over as acting director of the agency. Mr. Wheeler is expected to serve in an acting capacity as head of the E.P.A. until President Trump nominates a new agency chief, who must then be confirmed by the Senate. That process could take months and potentially stretch past the November midterm elections. 
It is possible that Mr. Trump could nominate Mr. Wheeler to the top job. However, several other names have also been mentioned as possible successors to Mr. Pruitt, including Donald Van der Vaart, a former senior environmental official in North Carolina. Mr. Pruitt selected him to serve on an E.P.A. scientific advisory board. 
In a June interview with the Washington Examiner, Mr. Wheeler said he had no interest in taking over his boss's job. "I could have put my hat in the ring for the administrator. I wasn't interested in that. I am still not interested in that," he said. 
Mr. Wheeler will now step in as the acting chief of an agency that has been central to President Trump's signature campaign promise of stripping away regulations. 
During Mr. Pruitt's tenure, the former Oklahoma attorney general gained headlines for his aggressive push to roll back dozens of regulations governing clean air and water, and fighting against Obama-era rules focused on limiting carbon emissions. In recent months, however, Mr. Pruitt's policy efforts were overshadowed by a running stream of alleged ethics violations. 
Mr. Wheeler tends to eschew the limelight, his colleagues said. His career was built around quietly and incrementally advancing the interests of the fossil-fuel industry, chiefly by weakening or delaying federal regulations. 
Mr. Wheeler has worked in Washington for more than 20 years. He is a former chief of staff to Oklahoma Senator James Inhofe, the conservative Republican who has become known as Washington's most prominent denialist of the established science of human-caused climate change. 
Mr. Wheeler also worked at the E.P.A. during the administration of the first President George Bush. More recently, he lobbied for the coal company Murray Energy, whose chief executive, Robert E. Murray, has been a supporter and adviser of Mr. Trump's. 
Environmentalists see in Mr. Wheeler a powerful ally of polluting industries and enemy of clean air and water. "Like Pruitt, this veteran coal lobby lobbyist has shown only disdain for the E.P.A.'s vital mission to protect Americans' health and our environment," said Ana Unruh Cohen, managing director for government affairs at the Natural Resources Defense Council, an advocacy group. 
Mr. Wheeler has appeared to embrace criticism from the left that he is an ally of fossil fuels, according to email exchanges obtained by the Sierra Club under a Freedom of Information Act request. Last October, soon after Mr. Wheeler was nominated to his position as deputy director, he sent an email to Mr. Pruitt's chief of staff, Ryan Jackson, a longtime friend, with a headline from The Onion, the satirical publication: "EPA Promotes Pulsating Black Sludge to Deputy Director." 
"Welcome, pulsating black sludge," Mr. Jackson responded. "I guess I'm going to have to get the cleaning crews to come in more often." 
Washington insiders describe Mr. Wheeler as well positioned to pursue Mr. Trump's agenda as effectively as Mr. Pruitt, or even more so, by moving more slowly but in ways likelier to withstand legal challenge. 
"Andrew is one of the most well-known, well-respected policy professionals in Washington on energy and environment -- he knows everybody," said Matthew Dempsey, a former colleague of Mr. Wheeler's in Mr. Inhofe's office, who currently works for a consulting firm representing the oil and gas industry. 
"He will be similar to Pruitt in terms of the agenda -- he understands the Trump administration and will carry out the agenda," said Mr. Dempsey. "But he's been around Washington a long time. He knows how D.C. works and he does things by the book." 
The departure of Mr. Pruitt, a former protégé of Mr. Inhofe's, and rise of Mr. Wheeler represents the powerful influence of Mr. Inhofe on the Trump administration's environment policy. Mr. Inhofe had long championed Mr. Pruitt's political career, and it was speculated that Mr. Pruitt would one day run for Mr. Inhofe's Senate seat in Oklahoma. 
Mr. Wheeler is one of a group of former Inhofe staff members, loosely known as the "Inhofe mafia," who now work in energy and environment policy positions across the Trump administration and in top Washington lobbying firms. 
Mr. Inhofe cheered Mr. Wheeler's arrival at the E.P.A. earlier this year. "Andy Wheeler is the most competent and qualified person for the job he's been asked to fulfill," Mr. Inhofe said. 
Mr. Wheeler's rise also represents a victory of influence for another of his former bosses, the coal magnate and Trump adviser Robert Murray. 
A few weeks after Mr. Trump's inauguration, Mr. Murray, who contributed $300,000 to Mr. Trump's inauguration fund, presented the president with a wish list of regulations that he wanted to see lifted from the coal industry. In particular, Mr. Murray has pushed Mr. Trump to undo President Barack Obama's regulations designed to curb planet-warming pollution from coal-fired power plants, a leading cause of global warming. Mr. Trump then assigned Mr. Pruitt to roll back those rules. 
Like Mr. Trump, Mr. Inhofe and Mr. Pruitt, Mr. Wheeler has questioned the established science of human-caused climate change. In 2010, Mr. Wheeler criticized the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the world's leading scientific authority on global warming, writing in a blog post that it has "has functioned more as a political body than a scientific body." 
However, some Democrats have offered at least modest praise of Mr. Wheeler -- as he himself noted in another email exchange with Mr. Jackson. 
After his November confirmation hearing, Mr. Wheeler emailed Mr. Jackson. "Everyone seemed to think I did a really good job, including Inhofe, Capito and Mr. Murray. Carper and Cardin both said really nice things about me," he wrote. 
He was apparently referring to Democratic Senators Thomas Carper of Delaware and Ben Cardin of Maryland, both of whom are advocates of strong environmental regulations, and Senator Shelley Moore Capito, the Republican from West Virginia, who is one of Washington's strongest advocates for the coal industry. 
In a statement at Mr. Wheeler's confirmation hearing, Mr. Carper said, "As a longtime staffer for the senior senator from Oklahoma, Mr. Wheeler was someone with whom we didn't always agree on each and every policy, but he did prove to be one with whom we were able to work together on policies that we did agree on." However, Mr. Carper did eventually vote against Mr. Wheeler's confirmation to his position as deputy. 
While it is likely that Mr. Wheeler, as the acting E.P.A. chief, will be effective in implementing Mr. Trump's deregulatory agenda, one potential obstacle to his being nominated by the president to fill the job permanently is his record of opposing Mr. Trump during the presidential campaign. In a Facebook post on February 29, 2016, Mr. Wheeler penned a strong critique of Mr. Trump that has since been deleted. 
"If you are considering voting for Donald Trump please think about the following: 1) no one really knows what his political beliefs are, he has donated to both parties over the years and to people with completely different views. 2) he has demonstrated through the debates and interviews that he doesn't understand how government works," he wrote. Mr. Wheeler's post also suggested that, as a businessman, Mr. Trump "really hasn't been that successful." 
Neither Mr. Wheeler nor two White House spokesmen responded to requests for comment about the Facebook post. 
Follow @NYTClimate on Twitter 

Photograph 
Andrew K. Wheeler will be acting E.P.A. administrator while President Trump seeks a successor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX EDELMAN/CNP/MEDIAPUNCH, VIA ALAMY) Copyright New York Times Company Jul 6, 2018 
Subject 	Nominations; 
Environmental regulations; 

Presidential communications and messages; 
Coal industry; 

Lobbyists; 

Climate change; 
Political campaigns; 
Coal-fired power plants; 
Environmental protection; 
Presidential elections; 
User groups 


Location 	Maryland; West Virginia; Washington DC; North Carolina; Delaware; Oklahoma 
People 	Trump, Donald J; Inhofe, James M; Capito, Shelley Moore; Pruitt, Scott; Obama, Barack; 

Wheeler, Andrew 


Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 

NAICS: 924110; 

Name: Natural Resources Defense Council NAICS: 813312; 
Name: Sierra Club NAICS: 813312; 
Name:  Facebook Inc  
NAICS:  518210, 519130;  
Name:  United Nations--UN  
NAICS:  928120;  

Name: Twitter Inc  
NAICS: 519130;  
Name: Senate  
NAICS: 921120;  
Name: Washington Examiner  
NAICS: 511110;  
Name: Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change  
NAICS: 541712, 928120  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/05/climate/wheeler-epa-pruitt.html  
Title  Steady Hand in Washington, Known for Quietly Whittling Away at the Rulebook: [National  
Desk]  
Author  Davenport, Coral  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.13  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Jul 6, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2064606099  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2064606099?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Jul 6, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-14  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 109 of 236 


Mr. Pruitt Departs. Count the Silver.: [Editorial] 
New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]06 July 2018: A.20. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Mr.+Pruitt+Departs.+Count+the+Silver.%3A+%5BEditorial%5D&title=New+Y 07-06&volume=&issue=&spage=A.20&au=&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Just when America had all but given up hope, Scott Pruitt's appalling reign as Environmental Protection Agency administrator is finally over. Thursday afternoon, Mr. Pruitt delivered President Trump his resignation letter, replete with references to "God's providence" and how "blessed" he was to have had the opportunity to serve not the nation, but this president. He sadly noted that "the unrelenting attacks on me personally, my family, are unprecedented and have taken a sizable toll on all of us." And so Mr. Pruitt heads for the door, leaving behind a dark, oily stain on the office that he has spent the past year and a half vigorously defiling. 
Mr. Pruitt's departure did not come as a total shock. Word around Washington in recent weeks was that the stench of corruption wafting from E.P.A. headquarters was getting to be too much even for Mr. Trump. Someone in the White House no doubt noticed that, with the midterms approaching, Mr. Pruitt was not playing well with any voter who retains some common sense. In an administration characterized by extreme swampiness and ethical flexibility, the E.P.A. chief had nonetheless distinguished himself with pathological grifting to the point that even some Republican lawmakers and reliably conservative commentators had begun publicly slapping him. 
Still, for months, Mr. Pruitt held on to his job as the embarrassing revelations piled up like so many used mattresses: his profligate spending on posh travel, over-the-top security, and ridiculous, self-aggrandizing office supplies; his directing agency staffers to run his personal errands, including finding him a place to live in Washington and combing hotels for his favorite skin cream; his attempts to score his wife a high-paying job, possibly involving chicken nuggets and waffle fries. Every week seemed to bring fresh examples of Mr. Pruitt's shameless and yet surprisingly petty misuse of his office. 
Mr. Trump's willingness to tolerate Mr. Pruitt's chicanery was not surprising. The two men share an environmental philosophy that may be roughly summarized as "industry over science," and, for all his flaws, Mr. Pruitt was tireless in the crusade to dismantle environmental protections. His greatest hits include playing a key role in getting Mr. Trump to withdraw the United States from the Paris climate agreement; pushing the repeal of numerous Obama-era regulations, including those to cut greenhouse gas emissions from power plants and automobiles; and instituting a policy that barred scientists who receive federal grants from serving on the E.P.A.'s advisory committees, while simultaneously welcoming corporate representatives onto these panels. Just last month, The Times reported that the E.P.A. had decided for the most part not to consider exposure to chemicals through the air, water or ground when it is evaluating whether they should be regulated or banned under a bipartisan law passed in 2016. 
Impressively, Mr. Pruitt was both a sneak and a thug. Self-aware enough to realize that some of what he was up to -- especially his snuggling up to certain industry interests -­might be viewed negatively by some, he took pains to keep his activities under wraps. Aides have accused him of keeping secret schedules and calendars, employing multiple email accounts and conducting important agency business on phones other than his own to ensure that the calls wouldn't show up on official logs. 
At the same time, staff members who tried to curtail some of Mr. Pruitt's more egregious behavior were demoted, reassigned or fired. 
Upon accepting Mr. Pruitt's resignation, Mr. Trump felt moved to tweet supportively: "Within the Agency Scott has done an outstanding job, and I will always be thankful to him for this." Speaking to reporters on Air Force One, Mr. Trump said Mr. Pruitt was a "terrific guy." The president said the decision to leave was Mr. Pruitt's, but then noted, "We've been talking about it for a little while." 
The daily drumbeat of toxic publicity finally turned the president against his E.P.A. chief. "It's one thing after another with this guy," Mr. Trump told a friend recently. 
Not that Mr. Trump is likely to lose much sleep over Mr. Pruitt's departure. Mr. Pruitt's successor, Andrew Wheeler, is expected to stay the antiregulatory course, albeit presumably without drawing as many headlines, by avoiding his predecessor's penchant for scandal. Mr. Wheeler is a former coal industry lobbyist and a former aide to Senator James Inhofe, the Oklahoma Republican who has denied the existence of climate change and has long opposed legislation to address that global problem. 
One task facing Mr. Wheeler -- who publicly opposed Mr. Trump during the Republican presidential primaries -- is to rebuild morale at the E.P.A. Much of the agency's career staff has felt under siege, not just because of Mr. Pruitt's policies and bullying behavior, but also because of his contempt for science and professional expertise. When President Trump's tweet appeared announcing the Pruitt resignation, there were reports of cheering in the hallways. 
In the end, Mr. Pruitt was driven from office for having abused his position so outrageously. But if Mr. Trump continues down the same policy paths, as seems likely, Mr. Pruitt's more lasting legacy, along with the president's, will be an overheated planet and shortened life spans. 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 
Credit: THE EDITORIAL BOARD 

Photograph 
(PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM BRENNER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) Copyright New York Times Company Jul 6, 2018 
Subject  Resignations;  
Editorials;  
Political appointments;  
Presidents;  
Environmental protection;  
Leadership;  
Environmental regulations  
Location  United States--US  
People  Trump, Donald J; Wheeler, Andrew; Pruitt, Scott  
Company / organization  Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS: 924110  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/05/opinion/scott-pruitt-epa-resigns-corruption.html  
Title  Mr. Pruitt Departs. Count the Silver.: [Editorial]  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.20  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Jul 6, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  2064605976  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2064605976?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Jul 6, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-14  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 110 of 236 


Mired in Scandal, Pruitt Is Forced to Exit E.P.A. Post: [National Desk] 
Davenport, Coral; Friedman, Lisa; Haberman, Maggie.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]06 July 2018: A.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Mired+in+Scandal%2C+Pruitt+Is+Forced+to+Exit+E.P.A.+Post%3A+%5BNation 07­06&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Davenport%2C+Coral%3BFriedman%2C+Lisa%3BHaberman%2C+Maggie&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=i 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Want the latest climate and environment news in your inbox? Sign up here to receive Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter. 
WASHINGTON -- Scott Pruitt, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and architect of President Trump's aggressive effort to rewrite the government's rule book on environmental regulations, resigned on Thursday in the face of numerous ethics investigations that doomed his tenure. 
Despite Mr. Pruitt's efforts to nurture a close relationship with the president, Mr. Trump himself announced the resignation in a tweet sent from Air Force One. He thanked Mr. Pruitt for an "outstanding job" and said the agency's deputy, Andrew Wheeler, a former coal lobbyist, would take over as the acting administrator on Monday. 
Mr. Pruitt in his resignation letter cited "unrelenting attacks on me personally" as one of the reasons for his departure. Mr. Pruitt had been hailed by conservatives for his zealous deregulation, but he could not overcome a spate of questions about his alleged spending abuses, first-class travel and cozy relationships with lobbyists. 
Mr. Pruitt also came under fire for enlisting aides to obtain special favors for him and his family, such as reaching out to the chief executive of Chick-fil-A, Dan T. Cathy, with the intent of helping Mr. Pruitt's wife, Marlyn, open a franchise of the restaurant. 
The resignation appeared to happen quickly. 
On Wednesday, Mr. Pruitt attended two Fourth of July parties, one at the White House and another at the Interior Department. One attendee who spent time with him said he spent the night mingling, shaking hands, watching the fireworks and showing no indication that he planned to step down. His chief of staff, Ryan Jackson, also gave no hint of what was ahead. 
An individual close to Mr. Pruitt said the president acted after he found one particular story in recent days embarrassing: a report that Mr. Pruitt had asked Mr. Trump to fire Jeff Sessions, the attorney general, so that Mr. Pruitt could run the Justice Department. 
The idea had been discussed privately for months by the president, who occasionally asked advisers if it was a good idea, according to two people familiar with the discussions. But seeing those deliberations being aired publicly, amid a string of other damaging reports, focused Mr. Trump's attention, a person close to the president said. Fresh allegations that Mr. Pruitt had retroactively altered his public schedule, potentially committing a federal crime, had also escalated concerns about him at the White House, according to a White House aide. On Thursday afternoon, around 1:30, Mr. Trump's chief of staff, John F. Kelly, reached out to Mr. Pruitt to tell him the time had come. 
Mr. Pruitt, a former Oklahoma attorney general who built his career on lawsuits against the agency he would eventually lead, remained a favorite of Mr. Trump's for the majority of his tenure at the E.P.A. He began the largest regulatory rollback in the agency's history, undoing, delaying or blocking several Obama-era environmental rules. Among them was a suite of historic regulations aimed at mitigating global warming pollution from the United States' vehicles and power plants. 
[Mr. Wheeler shares Mr. Pruitt's zeal to dismantle climate change regulations. Read more here.] 
Mr. Pruitt also played a lead role in urging Mr. Trump to follow through on his campaign pledge to withdraw the United States from the 2015 Paris climate agreement, despite warnings from some of the president's other senior advisers that the move could damage the United States' credibility in foreign policy. Under the landmark accord, nearly every country had committed to reducing emissions of planet-warming fossil fuel pollution. 
In 2017, Mr. Pruitt made headlines for questioning the established science of human-caused climate change, contradicting decades of research by scientific institutions, including his own agency. Although Mr. Pruitt was harshly criticized for the remarks, they did not affect his good standing with a president who has also mocked climate science. 
Mr. Trump has repeatedly told associates that Mr. Pruitt has done what he has wanted in terms of cutting regulations, so he has been reluctant to let him go. Mr. Pruitt, for his part, had made himself available to the president as a confidant. 
He ingratiated himself in part by offering himself as a sounding board on topics ranging from the North American Free Trade Agreement to to the Russia investigation, and he would join in as the president criticized the attorney general, Mr. Sessions. He often lunched at the White House mess in hopes of running into the president. 
But White House advisers, including Mr. Kelly, the president's chief of staff, for months have implored Mr. Trump to get rid of Mr. Pruitt. Ultimately, the president grew disillusioned with Mr. Pruitt after the accusations of impropriety and ethical missteps overshadowed Mr. Pruitt's policy achievements. 
In recent days, people who have spoken with Mr. Trump said he sounded exasperated with his E.P.A. administrator's negative headlines. "It's one thing after another with this guy," one person close to Mr. Trump quoted the president as saying. 
Mr. Pruitt is the subject of at least 13 federal investigations, and a government watchdog agency concluded that he had broken the law with his purchase of a $43,000 secure telephone booth. He was also under investigation for his 2017 lease of a bedroom in a condominium linked to a Canadian energy company's powerful Washington lobbying firm, and for accusations that he demoted or sidelined E.P.A. employees who questioned his actions. 
The former E.P.A. administrator had come under criticism for lavish expenditures on foreign travel, including a trip arranged for him by a lobbyist to Morocco, a country where the E.P.A. has no policy agenda. His domestic travel also came under fire after a former staff member told congressional investigators that his boss often sought to travel to Oklahoma, where Mr. Pruitt owns a home, directing his employees to "find me something to do" there so he could justify charging taxpayers for the expense. 
A New York Times report earlier this year detailed Mr. Pruitt's lavish spending and questionable practices in his home state. O n Thursday The Times reported on new questions about whether aides to Mr. Pruitt had deleted sensitive information about his meetings from his public schedule, potentially in violation of the law. 
While Democrats have criticized Mr. Pruitt since his nomination, in recent months even conservative Republicans had taken the unusual step of criticizing and questioning his ethics. Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina and the chairman of the House Oversight Committee, has started an investigation into Mr. Pruitt's actions at the E.P.A., the first such Republican-led inquiry into a Trump administration cabinet member. 
Joni Ernst and Charles E. Grassley, two Republican senators from Iowa, a farm state with a solid bank of Trump voters, have both publicly criticized Mr. Pruitt. Last month, the conservative National Review, which once championed his appointment, called on Mr. Pruitt to resign. On Tuesday, Laura Ingraham, the conservative talk radio host, tweeted, "Pruitt is the swamp. Drain it." 
On May 2, Mr. Gowdy's staff began conducting transcribed, behind-closed-doors interviews with Mr. Pruitt's closest aides. Partial transcripts from one of those interviews revealed that Mr. Pruitt used one of his top aides last year essentially as a personal assistant, having her help him search for an apartment as well as try to procure a used mattress from the Trump International Hotel. 
In addition, Mr. Pruitt faced irritation from the White House after The Atlantic magazine reported that Mr. Pruitt's office gave raises to two aides, even though the White House had declined to approve the raises. 
The E.P.A. has denied any wrongdoing on Mr. Pruitt's behalf. 
As the scandals mounted through the spring, Mr. Pruitt was called to testify before several House and Senate committees. Although they were routine budget hearings, they ended up serving as forums for lawmakers to interrogate Mr. Pruitt about his management practices. Mr. Pruitt, who is deeply religious, spent considerable time in the days before the hearings in prayer, according to a person close to him. 
He got through the hearings battered but intact, after deflecting blame for numerous issues onto his staff, particularly his chief of staff, Mr. Jackson, whom he blamed for making controversial decisions such as the illegal purchase of the $43,000 secure telephone booth. 
But the tactic of blaming his employees cost him loyalty. 
In recent months, nearly a dozen political appointees have quit or been fired from the E.P.A. More recently, many of those staffers have been called to testify to investigators on the House Oversight Committee, which had launched a probe into Mr. Pruitt's expenditures. The results of that investigation were expected to be the subject of a Senate hearing next month. 
Inside the E.P.A. on Thursday, as news of Mr. Pruitt's departure spread, some career employees said that the mood was jubilant but quiet given that many people were out of the office around the July 4 holiday. Some employees met for early drinks at Mackey's Public House, a bar near the E.P.A. 
It remains unclear how well some aspects of Mr. Pruitt's regulatory rollback agenda, and his effort to undo the environmental work of his predecessors, will stand the test of time. In his haste to cripple government regulation and publicize his success, Mr. Pruitt and his officials have failed to follow important procedures, and courts have already struck down at least six of his rollback efforts. 
His removal will deal a blow to his political aspirations. People close to Mr. Pruitt have said that he had been using his prominence in the Trump administration to position himself for a run for state office in Oklahoma. His sights, some said, were set on a possible presidential run in 2024. 
Instead, Mr. Pruitt is now the latest in Mr. Trump's purge of top administration officials. 
Credit: CORAL DAVENPORT, LISA FRIEDMAN and MAGGIE HABERMAN; Emily Cochrane and Maggie Haberman contributed reporting. 
Photograph 
Scott Pruitt left under fire. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETE MAROVICH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1); Scott Pruitt faces more than a dozen ethics investigations, but his political ambitions also played an important role in his removal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM BRENNER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13) Copyright New York Times Company Jul 6, 2018 
Subject 	Resignations; 
Employees; 
Environmental regulations; 

Regulatory reform; 
Political appointments; 
Presidents; 
Lobbyists; 

Political ethics; 
Environmental protection; 
Criminal investigations; 
Emission standards; 
Climate change; 
Industrial plant emissions 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Pruitt, Scott 
Company / organization  Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS: 924110  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/05/climate/scott-pruitt-epa-trump.html  
Title  Mired in Scandal, Pruitt Is Forced to Exit E.P.A. Post: [National Desk]  
Author  Davenport, Coral; Friedman, Lisa; Haberman, Maggie  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.1  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Jul 6, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2064605694  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2064605694?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Jul 6, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-14  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 111 of 236 



Why Are Big Political Parties Around the Globe Blowing Up?: [Commentary] 
Friedman, Thomas L.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]27 June 2018: A.23. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Why+Are+Big+Political+Parties+Around+the+Globe+Blowing+Up%3F%3A+% 06-27&volume=&issue=&spage=A.23&au=Friedman%2C+Thomas+L&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
If you haven't already noticed, let me be the first on your block to point it out: The big mainstream political parties across the industrialized world are all blowing up at once. It's quite extraordinary. 
The U.S. Republican Party has blown up in all but name, going overnight from an internationalist, free-trade, deficit-hawk party to a protectionist, anti-immigrant, deficit-dove party -- all to accommodate the instincts of Donald Trump and his base. 
As the former House Speaker John Boehner noted: "There is no Republican Party. There's a Trump party. The Republican Party is kind of taking a nap somewhere." Actually, it's dead, but it's not alone in the cemetery. 
Italy's last election ended with its mainstream center-left getting crushed, bringing to power instead a coalition of far-left, far-right populists, whose focus ranges from guaranteeing minimum income for Italy's 11 percent unemployed to rebuffing immigrants and the European Union. 
Britain's Labour Party has gone from center-left to quasi-Marxist. And the Brexit-loving Tories, having pushed Britain to exit the E.U. without any plan, are now divided and paralyzed over how to implement the economic suicide they've promised voters. 
The U.S. Democrats are fractured between a Bernie Sanders quasi-socialist wing and a center-left wing, but are glued together for now -- thank goodness -- by the overriding need to defeat Trump. German Chancellor Angela Merkel took four months to form a barely coherent governing coalition, after her ruling party got hammered in the last election -- and that fragile coalition may soon implode over immigration tensions. And French President Emmanuel Macron leads a centrist party that did not exist three years ago. 
As Quartz noted, the French Socialist Party "went from running the country to receiving just 6 percent of the vote in the first round of presidential elections last year." In the Netherlands, the Labor Party has been decimated, going from 25 percent of the vote in 2012, and governing in a coalition, to just 6 percent in last year's general election. 
What's going on? My short answer: climate change -- but not just the one you think. We're actually going through three climate changes at once, and together they are reshaping the ecosystems of work, learning, geopolitics, ethics and community in ways that parties built on our old left-right binary choices can no longer easily contain. 
How so? We're going through a change in the climate of the climate: We're going from later to now. When I was growing up in Minnesota, later was when I could clean that lake, save that forest or rescue that endangered owl. Today later is officially over. Later will now be too late, so whatever you're going to save, save it now. That's a climate change. 
We're going through a change in the climate of globalization: We're going from an interconnected world to an interdependent world. In an interdependent world your friends can kill you faster than your enemies. If banks in Greece or Italy -- both NATO allies -- go under tonight, your retirement fund will feel it. And in an interdependent world, your rivals falling becomes more dangerous than your rivals rising. If China takes six more islands in the South China Sea tonight, you won't lose sleep; if China loses 6 percent growth tonight, you could lose your job. 
Lastly, we're going through a change in the climate of technology. Machines are acquiring most of the unique attributes of humans -- particularly the ability to learn, analyze, reason, maneuver and drive on their own. 
From 1960 to 2000, Quartz reported, U.S. manufacturing employment stayed roughly steady at around 17.5 million jobs. But between 2000 and 2010, thanks largely to digitization and automation, "manufacturing employment plummeted by more than a third," which was "worse than any decade in U.S. manufacturing history." And we've digitized only about 20 percent of the economy, meaning there's tremendous technological climate change yet ahead. 
These climate changes are reshaping the ecosystem of work -- wiping out huge numbers of middle-skilled jobs -- and this is reshaping the ecosystem of learning, making lifelong learning the new baseline for advancement. 
These three climate changes are also reshaping geopolitics. They are like a hurricane that is blowing apart weak nations that were O.K. in the Cold War -- when superpowers would shower them with foreign aid and arms, when China could not compete with them for low-skilled work and when climate change, deforestation and population explosions had not wiped out vast amounts of their small-scale agriculture. 
Today, though, without those props, the most fragile nations are fracturing, like El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras south of us and in sub-Saharan Africa and the Middle East south of Europe. There is not enough order, sustainable land or industry to hold people on their farms or big cities. And this is creating the most relevant geopolitical divide in the world today: the divide between the World of Order and the World of Disorder. In Europe the boundary is the Mediterranean, and in the Americas it's the Rio Grande. 
And the number of people -- now armed with cellphone pictures and directions from human traffickers -- trying to get out of the World of Disorder into the World of Order is at all-time highs, producing nationalist/populist backlashes in America and Europe. 
This is all new and accelerating. But the big Western parties that dominated politics since World War II tended to be built around a set of rather stable left-right binary choices: the interests of capital versus labor; big government, high regulation versus small government, low regulation; a more closed national outlook hostile to free trade and immigration versus a more open internationalist outlook open to free trade and immigration; social norms to be embraced and social norms to be banned, like gay marriage and abortion; and economic growth versus environmental protection. 
Ruling and opposition parties tended to be combinations of these big binary choices. But nowadays they just can't contain and balance many of the new choices that parties, citizens, companies and communities have to make to thrive amid all these climate changes. 
If I work at a steel mill and am a member of the steel union Monday through Friday -- but on Saturday I drive for Uber and on Sunday I rent out my spare bedroom on Airbnb -­are my interests with capital or labor, with more government regulation or less? 
If I am a regional electric utility led by Republicans for decades -- but am now investing in wind and solar because they've become cheaper than new coal and my customers are demanding climate-protecting clean energy -- am I for Trump's tariffs on the cheap Chinese solar panels and his efforts to force me to keep using coal? 
Which party has a plan to pay for education in an era when lifelong learning is now vital for lifelong employment? How do we fund the kind of "perpetual education" that The Washington Post reported on recently, like the University of Michigan's Ross School of Business, which just "launched a scholarship program that pays for graduates to take classes there forever, and the number of students is slowly growing." 
I detest Trump's policy of separating immigrant kids from their parents. But how do Democrats think we're going to manage the flow from the World of Disorder? In its annual report last week, the United Nations refugee agency said there is a record-high 68.5 million migrants, including 25 million refugees, wandering the world. And how do Republicans think we're going to keep these people in their homes when Trump opposes all climate change mitigation and family-planning assistance for the developing world and most foreign aid? 
These old knee-jerk positions won't work anymore. We can't just wall ourselves off, and we can't just take in all the tired and poor who now want to come. Just as we had a Marshall Plan to stem the spread of Communism in Europe after World War II, we now need something similar to stem the spread of disorder coming from the south and help people stay at home. It will require wholly new ways of thinking about geopolitics, and neither of our traditional parties is doing that. 
One can see three different broad approaches playing out in response to these very new, complex political choices. One is leaders who want to build walls, against change and immigrants, who galvanize support by generating tribal solidarity. 
A second you can see in Macron or in Hillary Clinton's presidential campaign website. They offer a smorgasbord of technocratic-pragmatic solutions -- many of which make a lot of sense but lack any emotional grip on voters. 
The third approach is the one that you can see emerging organically in certain towns and communities across America. It is highly pragmatic in its approach to problem-solving but fosters solidarity not by conjuring old party loyalties or a new tribalism. It generates its idealism and solidarity instead through the trust and bonds of friendship that come from doing big hard things together in the community. 
I call these community-led projects complex adaptive coalitions -- where business, labor, educators, philanthropists, social entrepreneurs and mayors are all working together to build more adaptive local citizens and companies, and setting aside traditional party affiliations to do so. 
They are not waiting for Washington or their state governments, but are acting in their own local collective self-interest, nurturing adaptation from the bottom up. 
These efforts are the most hopeful things happening in America today. 
In next week's column I'll take you to one of places the approach is working best: Lancaster, Pa. 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 

Illustration 
DRAWING (DRAWING BY DOUG CHAYKA) Copyright New York Times Company Jun 27, 2018 
Subject 	Immigration policy; 
Globalization; 
Geopolitics; 
Politics; 

Trade policy; 
Political parties; 
Free trade; 
EU membership; 

Presidential elections; 
Climate change; 
Employment; 

Protectionism 


Location 	Italy; United States--US; United Kingdom--UK; China; Europe 
People 	Trump, Donald J; Merkel, Angela 
Company / organization 	Name: Republican Party 

NAICS: 813940; 

Name: Socialist Party-France NAICS: 813940; Name: Labour Party-UK NAICS: 813940 
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/26/opinion/political-parties-climate.html  
Title  Why Are Big Political Parties Around the Globe Blowing Up?: [Commentary]  
Author  Friedman, Thomas L  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.23  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Jun 27, 2018  
column  Op-Ed Columnist  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  2059394169  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2059394169?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Jun 27, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-14  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 112 of 236 


Cities' Climate Change Suit Thrown Out: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Schwartz, John.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]26 June 2018: B.4. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Cities%27+Climate+Change+Suit+Thrown+Out%3A+%5BBusiness%2FFinancia 06-26&volume=&issue=&spage=B.4&au=Schwartz%2C+John&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
A federal judge on Monday threw out a closely watched lawsuit brought by two California cities against fossil fuel companies over the costs of dealing with climate change. The decision is a stinging defeat for the plaintiffs, San Francisco and Oakland, and raises warning flags for other local governments around the United States that have filed similar suits, including New York City. 
The judge, William Alsup of Federal District Court in San Francisco, acknowledged the science of global warming and the great risks to the planet, as did the oil and gas companies being sued. But in his ruling, Judge Alsup said the courts were not the proper place to deal with such global issues, and he rejected the legal theory put forth by the cities. 
"The problem deserves a solution on a more vast scale than can be supplied by a district judge or jury in a public nuisance case," Judge Alsup wrote in a 16-page opinion. 
The cities wanted the defendants -- including BP, Chevron, ConocoPhillips, Exxon Mobil and Royal Dutch Shell -- to help pay for projects like protecting coastlines from flooding. 
But Judge Alsup said the issues would more properly be handled by the other two branches of government. "The court will stay its hand in favor of solutions by the legislative and executive branches," he wrote. 
A business group that has been highly critical of the lawsuits, the National Association of Manufacturers, expressed satisfaction with the dismissal of the case. "From the moment these baseless lawsuits were filed, we have argued that the courtroom was not the proper venue to address this global challenge," said the group's chief executive, Jay Timmons. 
Judge Alsup said that climate change was an issue of global importance but that the companies were not solely at fault. "Our industrial revolution and the development of our modern world has literally been fueled by oil and coal," he wrote. "Without those fuels, virtually all of our monumental progress would have been impossible." 
In light of that, he asked: "Would it really be fair to now ignore our own responsibility in the use of fossil fuels and place the blame for global warming on those who supplied what we demanded? Is it really fair, in light of those benefits, to say that the sale of fossil fuels was unreasonable?" 
A Chevron executive sounded a similar note in response to the decision. "Reliable, affordable energy is not a public nuisance but a public necessity," said R. Hewitt Pate, vice president and general counsel for Chevron. 
The cities had relied on the area of public nuisance under state common law, which allows courts to hold parties responsible for actions that interfere with the use of property. 
Earlier attempts use nuisance claims in lawsuits about climate change have been heard under federal law in cases such as American Electric Power v. Connecticut, but none have succeeded. In a unanimous 2011 decision, the Supreme Court said that the Clean Air Act displaced the federal common law of nuisance, leaving enforcement and regulation to the Environmental Protection Agency. 
The cases brought by San Francisco, Oakland and other cities and counties have attempted to use the nuisance doctrine at the state level, working from the theory that state common law has not been similarly displaced. The fossil fuel companies have tried to move the cases to the federal courts under federal law. 
Judge Alsup, in previous stages of the litigation, suggested that the federal courts could still hear such cases. He kept the suits filed by San Francisco and Oakland before him, and ordered an unusual "tutorial" on climate change to familiarize himself with the scientific issues. 
But in a different courtroom in the same building, Judge Vince Chhabria -- also of Federal District Court in San Francisco -- sent similar cases involving San Mateo and Marin Counties and the City of Imperial Beach to state court. That litigation is pending. 
Michael Burger, executive director of the Sabin Center for Climate Change Law at Columbia University, said that in deciding the courts were an improper venue for the case, Judge Alsup "focused on the need to balance the benefits of energy production against the harms of climate change, a balancing act carried out not only by the U.S. government but also by governments all around the world." He said it was too early to tell whether the decision would persuade other judges hearing similar cases around the country. 
John Coté, a spokesman for the San Francisco city attorney, said the city was considering its options. "This is obviously not the ruling we wanted, but this doesn't mean the case is over," he said. "We're reviewing the order and will decide on our next steps shortly." 
Mr. Coté added that the city agreed with Judge Alsup on one important point. "We're pleased that the court recognized that the science of global warming is no longer in dispute," he said. "Our litigation forced a public court proceeding on climate science, and now these companies can no longer deny it is real and valid. Our belief remains that these companies are liable for the harm they've caused." 
Copyright New York Times Company Jun 26, 2018 
Subject  Fossil fuels;  
Global warming;  
Court hearings & proceedings;  
Federal court decisions;  
Natural gas utilities;  
Climate change;  
Cities  
Location  Connecticut; New York; United States--US; California; San Mateo California;  
San Francisco California  

Company / organization 
URL Name: Royal Dutch Shell PLC NAICS: 213112, 221210, 324110; 
Name: Columbia University NAICS: 611310; 
Name: ConocoPhillips Co NAICS: 211111; 
Name: Exxon Mobil Corp NAICS: 211111, 447110; 
Name: National Association of Manufacturers NAICS: 813910; 
Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA NAICS: 924110; 
Name: American Electric Power Co Inc NAICS: 221122, 551112 
https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/25/climate/climate-change-lawsuit-san-francisco-oakland.html 
Title  Cities' Climate Change Suit Thrown Out: [Business/Financial Desk]  
Author  Schwartz, John  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.4  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Jun 26, 2018  
Section  B  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  

Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2058872898  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2058872898?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Jun 26, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-14  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 113 of 236 


Natural Gas Industry May Have Bigger Leak Issue Than Expected: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Schwartz, John; Plumer, Brad.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]22 June 2018: B.4. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Natural+Gas+Industry+May+Have+Bigger+Leak+Issue+Than+Expected%3A+% 06-22&volume=&issue=&spage=B.4&au=Schwartz%2C+John%3BPlumer%2C+Brad&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
The American oil and gas industry is leaking more methane than the government thinks -- much more, a new study says. Since methane is a powerful greenhouse gas, that is bad news for climate change. 
The new study, published Thursday in the journal Science, puts the rate of methane emissions from domestic oil and gas operations at 2.3 percent of total production per year, which is 60 percent higher than the current estimate from the Environmental Protection Agency. That might seem like a small fraction of the total, but it represents an estimated 13 million metric tons lost each year, or enough natural gas to fuel 10 million homes. 
Thanks to a boom in hydraulic fracturing in states like Texas and Pennsylvania, natural gas has quickly replaced coal as the leading fuel used by America's power plants. It has also helped, to some extent, in the fight against climate change: When burned for electricity, natural gas produces about half the carbon dioxide that coal does. The shift from coal to gas has helped lower CO2 emissions from America's power plants by 27 percent since 2005. 
But methane, the main component of natural gas, can warm the planet more than 80 times as much as the same amount of carbon dioxide over a 20-year period if it escapes into the atmosphere before being burned. A recent study found that natural gas power plants could actually be worse for climate change than coal plants if their leakage rate rose above 4 percent. 
Neither the E.P.A.'s estimates of leakage rates nor the higher estimates in the new study suggest that gas has crossed that threshold. Still, experts said that curbing methane emissions from oil and gas operations could prove an important climate policy. 
If there is good news in the report, it is that much of the leakage is fixable at relatively low cost. The lost methane is worth an estimated $2 billion a year. 
"Those emissions are avoidable, not inherent," said Steven Hamburg, chief scientist of the Environmental Defense Fund and an author of the paper. He cited estimates from the International Energy Agency that industry could reduce its methane emissions by 75 percent and that two-thirds of those reductions would pay for themselves because of the value of the saved gas. 
Some oil and gas firms already use infrared cameras to detect methane leaks and are exploring the use of drones and satellites for the task as well. Exxon Mobil, the nation's biggest gas producer, recently announced a plan to replace older, leaky equipment and reduce its methane emissions 15 percent by 2020. 
Environmental groups have argued that voluntary measures are not always sufficient, and they have urged federal regulators to step in and mandate more sweeping reductions. Former President Barack Obama proposed regulations to limit leaks, but over the past year, the Trump administration has moved to rescind most Obama-era methane policies. Some of these rollbacks are now tied up in court. 
The new study is the culmination of five years of research to determine the extent of methane leakage and its effect on climate. Led by the Environmental Defense Fund, the scientific papers produced in that time involved the work of more than 140 researchers from more than 40 institutions, with cooperation and funding from the industry to support the research. 
The main reason that total methane leakage is so much higher than the E.P.A. estimate, the report says, is the degree to which large leaks -- so-called super-emitters -­contribute to the problem. 
A representative of the gas industry argued that the new estimate, in trying to add the outlier leaks, missed the mark. Richard Meyer, managing director of energy analysis for the American Gas Association, called the new estimates "speculation" and said, "I have questions about their method and worry that some alternative hypotheses were too readily dismissed." 
Dr. Hamburg said he expected the new estimate to be questioned. "The industry is going to say it's too high and other people will say it's too low," he said. "You can cherry-pick either way." 
An E.P.A. spokeswoman said the agency was "looking forward to reviewing this study." 
Leaks can occur at many places along the natural gas supply chain, including poorly maintained pipes, seals and storage tanks, and even some equipment that emits gas by design, including outmoded pneumatic devices. 
Industry accounts for about a third of domestic methane emissions. The gas is also produced in large amounts by sources like belching livestock, algae-choked lakes fed by fertilizer runoff, rice paddies, landfills and defrosting tundra, said Amy Townsend-Small, director of the environmental studies program at the University of Cincinnati and one of the researchers involved with the latest paper. 
Shutting down leaks from oil and gas operations is important, Dr. Townsend-Small said, because industry is such a large source of methane emissions. But "it's one of many," so there is more work to be done, she added. 
Photograph 
Bubbles from soapy water poured over a pipe to detect methane seepage. The methane lost in leaks is worth about $2 billion a year, a new report says. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MORALES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) Copyright New York Times Company Jun 22, 2018 
Subject 	Studies; 
Estimates; 
Emissions; 

Gas industry; 
Researchers; 

Coal-fired power plants; 
Environmental policy; 
Climate change; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Natural gas 


Location 	Texas; New York; Pennsylvania 
People 	Obama, Barack 
Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Defense Fund 

NAICS: 541720, 813312; 


Name: New York Times Co 

NAICS: 511110, 511120, 515112, 515120; 


Name: Exxon Mobil Corp 

NAICS: 211111, 447110; 


Name: American Gas Association 

NAICS: 813910; 

Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 

NAICS: 924110; 

Name: International Energy Agency 

NAICS: 541720, 926130, 928120; 


Name: University of Cincinnati 

NAICS: 611310 


URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/21/climate/methane-leaks.html 
Title 	Natural Gas Industry May Have Bigger Leak Issue Than Expected: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Author 	Schwartz, John; Plumer, Brad 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	B.4 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Jun 22, 2018 
Section 	B 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2058463362  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2058463362?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Jun 22, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-14  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 114 of 236 



When Utilities Spark Wildfires: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Penn, Ivan.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]15 June 2018: B.1. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=When+Utilities+Spark+Wildfires%3A+%5BBusiness%2FFinancial+Desk%5D&titl 06-15&volume=&issue=&spage=B.1&au=Penn%2C+Ivan&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
FALLBROOK, Calif. -- After flames rolled over the hills north of San Diego and engulfed vineyards, avocado groves and neighborhoods, hundreds in this area were left with only the charred remains of homes and businesses. For many, that moment in 2007 was the beginning of a long struggle to rebuild -- if they did at all -- and recover their financial losses. 
And they had a villain in mind: San Diego Gas and Electric, whose fallen power poles had been found partly responsible. "It wasn't campers; it wasn't somebody throwing a match," said Al Ransom, a 79-year-old retired Marine who sued the utility over losses that reached into the millions. "It was the utility. That was established." 
Now the question is whether an investor-owned utility's customers -- not its shareholders -- should pay for the harm in such cases. A bill before the California Legislature would give utilities the ability to pass on the costs from legal settlements to ratepayers, even if the utilities were responsible for the fire. 
Lawmakers and representatives of the utilities have raised concerns that liability for wildfires threatens the companies' security and, as a result, the electric grid. And they say the risk will only become greater as climate change increases the potential for natural disasters. 
Last year alone, wildfires in the state killed dozens of people, destroyed thousands of homes and businesses and damaged tens of thousands of other properties -- losses estimated at $12 billion in all. Neglected maintenance around power lines belonging to the state's biggest utility, Pacific Gas and Electric, has been blamed for some of the fires. 
But critics assert that power providers across the nation want ratepayers to bear the financial burden when things go wrong, whether the cause is a natural disaster, a utility's negligence or even poor decision-making by executives -- in essence, that like crucial financial firms, they are too big to fail. 
"Every other business in America, if they make bad decisions, they go out of business," said Steve Campora, a lawyer for some of the victims of California fires over the past 10 years. "For some reason, there's this notion that the utilities ought to be propped up." 
Critics of the utilities point to cases like these, all involving investor-owned utilities: 
¦
 In North Carolina, Duke Energy has been seeking regulatory approval for more than $400 million in additional payments from its customers, in part to clean up leaking coal-ash basins at its power plants across the state. 

¦
 South Carolina Electric and Gas and related utilities canceled the V.C. Summer nuclear plant last year after they ran up $9 billion in expenses for which consumers continue to foot the bill. 

¦
 Florida Power and Light, Duke Energy, Gulf Power and TECO Energy lost $6.5 billion over a 15-year period in hedging the price of natural gas, betting that it would rise. Prices fell, and Florida consumers paid for the misjudgment. 


"They just kept doing it and kept losing," said Charles Rehwinkel, deputy public counsel for the Florida Legislature. "There was a seismic change in the price of natural gas and they just kept losing money." 
Just as the California Legislature is considering for its utilities, Mr. Rehwinkel said Florida allowed power companies to recover their costs on the hedging as long as they developed a plan for the program, even if it was flawed and failed. And with the ability to charge customers, he said, the utilities just kept spending money. 
"Once they start it, they can't stop," Mr. Rehwinkel said. "It's more addictive than crack." 
Jamie Court, president of Consumer Watchdog, a nonprofit advocacy organization in Los Angeles, said the companies have consistently sought to use their customers to fund their ambitions and failures while rewarding investors -- even after regulators have found the utility at fault. "They socialize the risk and privatize the profits," he said. 
Before the fire that damaged their home, Mr. Ransom and his wife, Cathie, ran a business on the property -- a bed-and-breakfast and a wedding venue -- that took a decade to develop. So when a 5 a.m. call from a neighbor warned that a fire was approaching the area, in a canyon shaded by towering oaks and palms, Mr. Ransom scrambled to save what he could. 
"I was a Marine," he said. "Some things you feel you can control. This you couldn't control." 
Insurance would not cover all that the couple lost, so Mr. Ransom sued San Diego Gas and Electric. It took six years to recover any money in a settlement -- he would not disclose the amount -- and in the meantime, he and his wife restored the estate using their retirement funds. 
California officials know just how troublesome utility poles can be. 
On a recent walking tour in San Jose, the state's third-most populous city, a former state regulator showed the issues that are raised when the wooden poles that hold power lines and communication cables are not attended to. Some cable lines dangled in front of houses. Workers had tied some wires to the poles with rope -- a violation noted by the tour's guides. Power lines ran through thickets of trees to connect to houses. 
Some resembled odd Christmas trees, with wires, a street lamp, a cable box and ropes, all supported by a single pole. And even with the array of things connected to the poles, some lack proper support. A wire from one pole along the route had even caused a brush fire next to a home when it fell to the ground in April. 
"Overloaded poles have caused wildfires," said Catherine Sandoval, the former regulator who had organized the tour. 
Michael Picker, president of the California Public Utilities Commission, who took part in the tour, said there was no comprehensive state database of utility poles, though he said there were several million. 
"We have to have a better picture of where the poles are, who owns them and what's on them," he said. 
In a report last week, the State Department of Forestry and Fire Protection, known as Cal Fire, determined that power lines and poles and other electrical equipment owned by Pacific Gas and Electric had been responsible for a dozen fires in Northern California last October. In eight of those cases, it referred the findings to prosecutors over possible violations of state law. 
In response, Pacific Gas and Electric issued a statement saying that "the loss of life, homes and businesses in these extraordinary wildfires is simply heartbreaking," but it believed that its fire prevention programs, which include moving or trimming more than a million trees per year, "met our state's high standards." 
Still, PG&E -- which reported $1.66 billion in profit in 2017, twice what it reported in 2013 -- says a legislative shield is necessary to protect it from financial ruin. "The inability to recover costs in excess of insurance through increases in rates," it said in a regulatory filing, "could have a material adverse effect on PG&E Corporation and the utility's financial condition." 
State Senator Bill Dodd, a Democrat whose Northern California district encompasses areas ravaged by wildfires last year, drafted legislation that would provide such a shield if utilities meet requirements to reduce fire risk. No longer would the state's Public Utility Commission be able to prevent utilities from passing on legal costs from a fire to their ratepayers, as long as they follow the fire protection plan approved by the state. He said the bill aimed to guarantee that the utilities can maintain the power system. 
"In a world of dramatic climate change, where wildfire threatens all year long, where development is pushing further in the hinterlands," he said at a hearing on the bill, "we must require utilities to meet their responsibility, to proactively invest in their systems to minimize the possibility of igniting another devastating fire event." 
Mr. Dodd said his bill would not prevent consumers from suing, nor affect liability for last year's fires or others before the bill's final approval. 
But critics like Mr. Court argue that the bill does make it easier for utilities to pass liability-related costs on to customers. 
Based on the current bill, consumers would have to pay regardless of whether the utilities were at fault, Mr. Court said. For instance, he said, if a utility adheres to the plan it submits to the state, like saying it will trim 80 percent of trees around power lines, its shareholders would not be liable for damage from a wildfire, even if it were caused by other trees that went unpruned. 
"It's bad public policy," Mr. Court said. 
The bill passed the Senate in late May and is working its way through the California Assembly. 
Even though his own case, after a long wait, ended in a settlement, Mr. Ransom was left with strong feelings about who should pay. 
"I'm strongly opposed to letting utility companies off the hook," Mr. Ransom said. "I just don't think the government should step in and help them." 

Photograph 
Top, utility poles with makeshift supports in San Jose, Calif. Above, the Ransoms, who sued over a fire caused by fallen poles. (B1); Al Ransom reviewing photographs of damage caused to his property and bed-and-breakfast business in the 2007 Rice Canyon fire. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATCHULL SUMMERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) Copyright New York Times Company Jun 15, 2018 
Subject 	Legislatures; 
Bills; 

Consumers; 

Electric utilities; 

Liability; 

Forest & brush fires; 
Fire prevention; 
Natural gas utilities; 
Regulatory approval 


Location 	United States--US; California 
Company / organization 	Name: Duke Energy Corp 

NAICS: 221122; 

Name: San Diego Gas & Electric Co NAICS: 221122; 
Name: Legislature-California NAICS: 921120 
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/14/business/energy-environment/california-fires-utilities.html  
Title  When Utilities Spark Wildfires: [Business/Financial Desk]  
Author  Penn, Ivan  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.1  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Jun 15, 2018  
Section  B  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2055452087  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2055452087?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Jun 15, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-13  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 115 of 236 


Trump Pledged to Bail Out Coal. Why That's Easier Said Than Done.: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Plumer, Brad; Popovich, Nadja.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]14 June 2018: B.2. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Trump+Pledged+to+Bail+Out+Coal.+Why+That%27s+Easier+Said+Than+Done 06-14&volume=&issue=&spage=B.2&au=Plumer%2C+Brad%3BPopovich%2C+Nadja&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- When President Trump came into office, he vowed to revive America's coal mining industry by rolling back Obama-era environmental regulations. But coal keeps getting edged out by cheaper and cleaner alternatives. More than 15 gigawatts of coal capacity is set to retire this year, the second-biggest year on record, according to the Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis. And the coal units that are left now operate far less frequently than they used to, replaced by natural gas, wind and solar power. 
For many utilities, the decision to abandon coal comes down to simple economics. Xcel Energy, Colorado's largest electric utility, recently concluded that it could save $213 million by retiring two of its older coal-fired units a decade ahead of schedule and replacing them with a mix of wind, solar, battery storage and natural gas. 
"We built a lot of our coal fleet 40 years ago, and it's costly to maintain," said Joshua D. Rhodes, an energy expert at the University of Texas Austin. "Many utilities are now finding that there are plenty of lower-cost options." 
That shift has been beneficial for efforts to slow global warming because coal produces more carbon dioxide per unit of energy than any other source in common use. Its decline has lowered CO2 emissions in America's power sector 27 percent below their 2005 levels. 
But as coal companies continue to lose business, some have appealed to Mr. Trump to intervene. 
On June 1, Mr. Trump ordered Energy Secretary Rick to "prepare immediate steps" to halt the further closure of coal and nuclear plants. And a leaked internal memo suggested that the administration was considering a drastic intervention in America's electricity markets to do so. 
Right now, in parts of the country with deregulated electricity systems, like the Mid-Atlantic region, energy companies compete in auctions to sell their electricity to the grid. A glut of cheap natural gas has caused the prices to fall sharply in recent years -- a big reason that many coal and nuclear plants have become unprofitable. 
The memo suggested that the Energy Department could try to circumvent these forces by ordering grid operators to buy electricity at above-market rates from certain at-risk coal and nuclear plants for at least two years. 
Nuclear Power Is Also Waning 
In recent years, America's nuclear power plants have also been succumbing to many of those same market forces. Six nuclear reactors have shut down permanently since 2013, victims of high maintenance costs and competition from cheap natural gas, and 11 more are slated to close by 2025. 
The decline of nuclear power, the nation's largest source of carbon-free electricity, is more ominous for efforts to slow global warming. Experts have warned that if these reactors close, they will likely be replaced by natural gas in the near term and emissions will rise. (While natural gas is cleaner than coal, it is still a fossil fuel and produces carbon dioxide when burned for electricity.) 
"Coal and nuclear often get lumped together, but there are at least good climate reasons to worry about the loss of those nuclear plants," said Jason Bordoff, director of the Center for Global Energy Policy at Columbia University. "That's not the case with coal." 
While the White House has not cited climate change as a reason for saving these plants, several states -- including New Jersey, Illinois and New York -- have moved to subsidize their at-risk nuclear plants in the name of fighting global warming. But in Ohio and Pennsylvania, where utilities have threatened to close four reactors, lawmakers have so far been slower to intervene. 
Good for Coal Companies, Bad for Consumers 
If enacted, Mr. Trump's order is widely expected to benefit companies like FirstEnergy, an Ohio-based utility whose subsidiary declared bankruptcy in April, putting three nuclear plants and two coal plants at risk of closing. FirstEnergy has urged the administration to pursue a rescue plan, as has Robert E. Murray, a major Trump donor and mining executive whose company sells coal to FirstEnergy. 
But the proposal has caused fierce blowback from a broad alliance of other energy companies that would stand to lose market share. The oil and gas industry has joined with wind and solar groups in opposition, calling the idea "unprecedented and misguided" and threatening lawsuits if the proposal goes forward. 
The leaked Energy Department memo indicated that the White House may invoke national security and rely on emergency powers that are normally used for short-term crises like hurricanes. The administration has argued that the loss of coal and nuclear plants, which can run around the clock, would make America's electric grid less reliable. But grid operators themselves have disputed this rationale, arguing that there is no pressing emergency. 
An attempt to prop up unprofitable plants could also mean higher prices for consumers. An earlier bailout proposal by Mr. Perry would have cost between $311 million and $11.8 billion per year, according to an estimate by the research firm Energy Innovation. That plan was ultimately rejected by federal regulators, who have been no less critical of the administration's latest idea. 
"This intervention could potentially 'blow up' the markets and result in significant rate increases without any corresponding reliability, resilience, or cybersecurity benefits," warned Robert F. Powelson, one of Mr. Trump's own appointees on the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, which oversees electricity markets, at a Senate hearing on Tuesday. 
Follow @NYTClimate on Twitter 
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 
Map 
More Than 200 Coal Plants Have Closed Since 2010 -- and More Retirements Are Coming (Source: Energy Information Administration. Generation is measured by net summer capacity.); Nine Nuclear Plants Are Set to Retire by 2025 (Source: Energy Information Administration; Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis. Generation is measured by net summer capacity and reflects status as of March 2018.); CHART: America's Electricity Mix Has Changed Over the Past Decade (Source: Energy Information Administration. Hydroelectric and other sources of electricity generation are not shown.) Copyright New York Times Company Jun 14, 2018 
Subject 	Nuclear energy; 

Financial analysis; 
Carbon; 
Environmental regulations; 

Regulatory reform; 
Global warming; 
Coal mining; 

Coal-fired power plants; 
Energy policy; 
Energy industry; 

Climate change; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Nuclear power plants; 

Energy economics; 

Natural gas 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Trump, Donald J 
Company / organization 	Name: Department of Energy 

NAICS: 926130; 

Name: Xcel Energy Inc 

NAICS: 221122, 221210, 551112; 


Name: Federal Energy Regulatory Commission--FERC 

NAICS: 926110, 926130; 


Name: Energy Information Administration 

NAICS: 926130 


Title 	Trump Pledged to Bail Out Coal. Why That's Easier Said Than Done.: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Author 	Plumer, Brad; Popovich, Nadja 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	B.2 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Jun 14, 2018 
Section 	B 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2056367240  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2056367240?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Jun 14, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-13  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 116 of 236 


Do You Feel More Secure?: [Commentary] 
Friedman, Thomas L.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]13 June 2018: A.25. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Do+You+Feel+More+Secure%3F%3A+%5BCommentary%5D&title=New+Yor 06-13&volume=&issue=&spage=A.25&au=Friedman%2C+Thomas+L&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
First Donald Trump remade the Republican Party in his own image, and now he is trying to remake America the same way -- into a selfish, dishonest country with no close friends, totally unpredictable, free of any commitment to enduring values, ready to stab any ally in the back on Twitter if it doesn't do our bidding and much more comfortable with mafia-like dictators than elected democrats. 
God forbid we become the United States of Trump. That would threaten our future and the stability of the world. The world has come to rely on an America that, more often than not, has been ready to pay any price and bear any burden to do the right things, say the right things, model the right things and stand for the right things -- when others were unwilling or unable to do so. 
All the tangible and intangible benefits flowing from the global order we generated helped to make us the richest, most secure and most respected nation in history. We need to make that prosperity more inclusive, but becoming the Ugly America will make us only more insecure. 
Fox News Chorus: That's awfully churlish, Friedman. After all, Trump may deserve a Nobel Peace Prize for the denuclearization deal he just forged with North Korea. 
I'm glad Trump sat down with Kim Jong-un -- nothing else has worked. But Trump is so dishonest, so much better at breaking things than making things and such a chump for anyone who flatters him, it is way too soon to say what will be implemented out this Singapore fling. If it's the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula, I'll personally nominate Trump for the Nobel Prize. But let's see. 
For now, I'd only nominate him for the "Ignoble Prize." It's given to the leader who uses his presidential prerogatives to undermine the personal security of his citizens and values of his nation in more ways in just one year than any leader before him. 
Tell me, are you really feeling more secure today? 
Not if you have a pre-existing medical condition and are relying on Obamacare to guarantee your treatment if you change health insurers. In case you missed it, in all the tumult Trump has churned up lately, his Justice Department quietly indicated last week that it would not defend major parts of the Affordable Care Act that pro-Trump forces, having failed to kill it in Congress, are now trying to kill through lower courts. And this includes the requirement that insurance companies guarantee access to coverage without bias against people with pre-existing medical conditions. 
The implications? Senator Susan Collins, the Maine Republican who voted against repealing Obamacare, put it best: The decision not to defend key provisions of Obamacare -­in a suit filed by Texas' attorney general and 19 other states -- "creates further uncertainty that could ultimately result in higher costs for millions of Americans and undermine essential protections for people with pre-existing conditions, such as asthma, cancer, heart disease, arthritis and diabetes." 
Are you feeling more secure? 
Trump just picked a fight with our closest NATO allies, including Canada's Prime Minister Justin Trudeau -- whom Trump's team said "stabbed us in the back" after Trudeau's mild-mannered defense of his own country's trade policy on dairy imports. This after Trump has had nary a word of censure for Russia's President Vladimir Putin, who stabbed us in the chest with the biggest cyberattack on our democracy ever. 
What happens if there is another 9/11 and we need Canada's help for something more than buying our milk? What country wouldn't want Canada as its neighbor? Our president is compromised on Russia and is rapidly alienating every ally with whom we confronted Nazism, Communism and radical Islamism in the last 70 years. 
Are you feeling more secure? 
The Times reported last week that "Trump is the first president since 1941 not to name a science adviser, a position created during World War II to guide the Oval Office on technical matters ranging from nuclear warfare to global pandemics." He relies on his "instincts" instead, and his instincts told him that climate change is a hoax. 
So let's see: In the case of North Korea, even if there was just a one-in-a-million chance Kim Jong-un would launch a nuclear missile at us, Trump said we must do everything possible to buy insurance so that it can't happen -- even if it meant pre-emptive war. 
But in the case of climate change -- where an overwhelming majority of scientists in Trump's own government say human-induced climate change is 100 percent real and we need to join with the other major industrial powers in the Paris climate agreement to reduce carbon emissions to avoid the unmanageable aspects of climate change and manage the unavoidable ones -- Trump chose to scrap Paris, throw away any insurance and move to revive coal. 
Interestingly enough, Jim Bridenstine, the Oklahoma congressman whom Trump appointed as his NASA administrator, and who came in as a climate-change skeptic, told NASA employees at his first town hall last month: "I fully believe and know that the climate is changing. I also know that we human beings are contributing to it in a major way." 
Are you feeling more secure? 
Following a barrage of lobbying by chemical companies, Trump's Environmental Protection Agency just decided to scale back how the government decides health and safety risks linked to the toxic chemicals used in dry cleaning, paint stripping and cosmetics. 
"The approach means that the improper disposal of chemicals -- leading to the contamination of drinking water, for instance -- will often not be a factor in deciding whether to restrict or ban them," The Times reported. 
Are you feeling more secure? 
According to the Congressional Budget Office, the corporate tax cut that Trump's Congress passed, along with the $1.3 trillion spending bill -- including a huge surge in military spending -- will, even with higher economic growth, add some $2.6 trillion to the national debt over the coming decade. 
If interest rates rise even moderately, as expected, in the next few years, budget experts believe that nondiscretionary spending on interest on the debt, government health care programs and Social Security will leave virtually nothing left for us to invest in improved bridges and roads, scientific research, new weapons systems, education programs and housing. 
Both parties have contributed to this problem, but Trump has just sharply exacerbated it -- without ever taking the C.B.O.'s projections into account. 
Are you feeling more secure? 
Add it all up and you have a president tearing apart a range of longstanding accords and relationships at once -- without any serious expert input -- just to serve his short-term needs, satisfy his unhinged and now unrestrained instincts or feed his hatred of his predecessor. 
Are you feeling more secure? 
Sure, if climate change turns out to be a hoax, it won't matter that we have a president who doesn't believe in science. And sure, if we get consecutive years of exceptionally high growth, and no recession, maybe we'll grow out of the massive increase in the national debt Trump took on with his corporate tax cuts. 
Maybe China, Canada and our European allies will indeed bend to our will on trade and it really will be easy to win multiple trade wars at once. Maybe if another 9/11, or global recession like 2008, never materializes we won't need allies and we really can cozy up to Putin. And, sure, if health care costs miraculously drop on their own, it won't matter that Trump destroyed Obamacare without putting anything in its place, let alone something better and cheaper, as he vowed. 
Sure. And maybe Justify will win the Triple Crown again. 
Are you still feeling more secure? 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 
Copyright New York Times Company Jun 13, 2018 
Subject 	National security; 
Political leadership; 
Health care; 
Corporate taxes; 
Presidents; 
International relations-US; 

Climate change; 
Foreign policy 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Trump, Donald J; Kim Jong Un; Trudeau, Justin; Putin, Vladimir 
Company / organization 	Name: Republican Party 

NAICS: 813940; 

Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA NAICS: 924110; 
Name: North Atlantic Treaty Organization--NATO NAICS: 928120; 
Name: National Aeronautics & Space Administration--NASA NAICS: 927110; 
Name: Congressional Budget Office--CBO NAICS: 921120 
URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/12/opinion/trump-kim-north-korea-allies.html 
Title  Do You Feel More Secure?: [Commentary]  
Author  Friedman, Thomas L  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.25  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Jun 13, 2018  
column  Op-Ed Columnist  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  2053829534  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2053829534?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Jun 13, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-13  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 117 of 236 


Pope Urges Oil Executives to Act on Climate: 'There Is No Time to Lose': [Foreign Desk] 
Povoledo, Elisabetta.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]10 June 2018: A.8. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Pope+Urges+Oil+Executives+to+Act+on+Climate%3A+%27There+Is+No+Time 06-10&volume=&issue=&spage=A.8&au=Povoledo%2C+Elisabetta&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
ROME -- Three years ago, Pope Francis issued a sweeping letter that highlighted the global crisis posed by climate change and called for swift action to save the environment and the planet. 
On Saturday, the pope gathered money managers and titans of the world's biggest oil companies during a closed-door conference at the Vatican and asked them if they had gotten the message. 
"There is no time to lose," Francis told them on Saturday. 
Pressure has been building on oil and gas companies to transition to less polluting forms of energy, with the threat of fossil-fuel divestment sometimes used as a stick. 
The pope said oil and gas companies had made commendable progress and were "developing more careful approaches to the assessment of climate risk and adjusting their business practices accordingly." But those actions were not enough. 
"Will we turn the corner in time? No one can answer that with certainty," the pope said. "But with each month that passes, the challenge of energy transition becomes more pressing." 
He called on the participants "to be the core of a group of leaders who envision the global energy transition in a way that will take into account all the peoples of the earth, as well as future generations and all species and ecosystems." 
In an era when the White House is viewed by many scientists as hostile to the very idea of climate change, with President Trump announcing the United States' withdrawal from the Paris climate accord, Francis is seen as an influential voice to nudge oil executives to take action on the issue. 
Among those summoned to a 16th-century villa in the Vatican gardens were the chairman of Exxon Mobil, the chief executive of the Italian energy giant Eni and the chief executive of BP. 
Paul J. Browne, a Notre Dame spokesman, said the university's president, the Rev. John I. Jenkins, had been inspired by the pope's 2015 encyclical instructing "all schools and departments of the university to respond to Francis' evocative appeal on behalf of 'our sister,' the Earth." 
Many had complied, he said, including by expediting plans to stop coal burning at the university power plant. Notre Dame's Mendoza College of Business sponsored the conference. 
In his 2015 encyclical, Francis, a vocal supporter of the Paris accord, warned that climate change represented "one of the principal challenges facing humanity in our day." He called for a model of energy transition. 
On Saturday, the pope reiterated his call for a transition from fossil fuels "to a greater use of energy sources that are highly efficient while producing low levels of pollution." It was a challenge "of epochal proportions," he acknowledged, but also one that presented an immense opportunity to "promote the sustainable development of renewable forms of energy." 
He said that though the world is affected by climate change, it was the poor who would "suffer most from the ravages of global warming." Francis added that the transition "is a duty that we owe towards millions of our brothers and sisters around the world, poorer countries and generations yet to come." 
Last month, a group of investors representing more than $10.4 trillion in assets published a letter in The Financial Times urging the oil and gas industry to "be more transparent and take responsibility for its emissions," which account for 50 percent of global carbon emissions, according to the Carbon Disclosure Project, an organization based in London. 
To date, according to the Global Catholic Climate Movement, dozens of Catholic institutions have divested from fossil fuels, including Caritas Internationalis, a confederation of relief organizations; Catholic banks with more than 7 billion euros, or $8.3 billion, on their balance sheets; archdioceses; religious orders; and lay movements. 
On Thursday, Equinor, the Norwegian oil giant formerly called Statoil, released a report saying that the world needed to move faster in adopting renewable energy to achieve the goals of the Paris agreement. 
"The climate debate is long on targets, but short on action," the company said. "We believe it's possible to achieve climate targets set out in the Paris agreement, but that requires swift, global and coordinated political action to drive changes in consumer behavior and shift investments towards low carbon technologies." 
Other oil companies, including Exxon Mobil, have endorsed the Paris accord and have called for carbon taxes, but the Equinor report appeared to be more explicit in its endorsement of more vigorous climate action. Still, Equinor remains a major producer of oil and gas, and it continues to search for hydrocarbons. 
The Rev. Seamus P. Finn, a participant at a conference in 2013 that brought mining companies to the Vatican, said that exercise had been useful for the industry and the Vatican "to better understand each other," and that follow-up meetings had "deepened the quality of the conversation." 
The Vatican is a "safe place for discussion," said Father Finn, a Catholic priest and the chairman of the Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility. 
"I think that all can agree that there needs to be a shift from fossil fuels to alternative forms of energy, but the debate is how long is that transition period going to be," Father Finn said. 
"For some, it's tomorrow. For others who believe that climate change is not so serious, there is plenty of time," he added. 
The pope on Saturday said that the situation was dire. Despite the Paris agreement, carbon dioxide emissions and atmospheric concentrations of greenhouse gases remained high. He said the search for new fossil fuel reserves was "even more worrying." 
"We received the earth as a garden-home from the Creator," Francis said. "Let us not pass it on to future generations as a wilderness." 
Credit: ELISABETTA POVOLEDO; Stanley Reed contributed reporting from London, and Clifford Krauss from Houston. 

Photograph 
Pope Francis last month in St. Peter's Square. During a meeting at the Vatican on Saturday, he implored oil and gas companies to do more to address climate change. 
(PHOTOGRAPH BY MAURIZIO BRAMBATTI/EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK) 
Copyright New York Times Company Jun 10, 2018 

Subject 	Gases; 
Religious orders; 

Fossil fuels; 
Emissions; 

Carbon; 
Earth; 
Energy; 
Paris Agreement; 

Natural gas utilities; 
Endorsements; 
Climate change; 
Industrial plant emissions 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Trump, Donald J; Francis (Pope) 
Company / organization 	Name: Exxon Mobil Corp 

NAICS: 211111, 447110; 


Name: Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility NAICS: 525110; 
Name: Carbon Disclosure Project NAICS: 813312; 
Name: Financial Times NAICS: 511110 
URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/09/world/europe/pope-oil-executives-climate-change.html 
Title 	Pope Urges Oil Executives to Act on Climate: 'There Is No Time to Lose': [Foreign Desk] 
Author 	Povoledo, Elisabetta 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.8 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Jun 10, 2018 
Section 	A 
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2052513791  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2052513791?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Jun 10, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-13  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 118 of 236 


In the Trump Administration, Science Is Unwelcome. So Is Advice.: [National Desk] 
Davenport, Coral.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]10 June 2018: A.1. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=In+the+Trump+Administration%2C+Science+Is+Unwelcome.+So+Is+Advice.% 06-10&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Davenport%2C+Coral&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- As President Trump prepares to meet Kim Jong-un of North Korea to negotiate denuclearization, a challenge that has bedeviled the world for years, he is doing so without the help of a White House science adviser or senior counselor trained in nuclear physics. 
Mr. Trump is the first president since 1941 not to name a science adviser, a position created during World War II to guide the Oval Office on technical matters ranging from nuclear warfare to global pandemics. As a businessman and president, Mr. Trump has proudly been guided by his instincts. Nevertheless, people who have participated in past nuclear negotiations say the absence of such high-level expertise could put him at a tactical disadvantage in one of the weightiest diplomatic matters of his presidency. 
"You need to have an empowered senior science adviser at the table," said R. Nicholas Burns, who led negotiations with India over a civilian nuclear deal during the George W. Bush administration. "You can be sure the other side will have that." 
The lack of traditional scientific advisory leadership in the White House is one example of a significant change in the Trump administration: the marginalization of science in shaping United States policy. 
There is no chief scientist at the State Department, where science is central to foreign policy matters such as cybersecurity and global warming. Nor is there a chief scientist at the Department of Agriculture: Mr. Trump last year nominated Sam Clovis, a former talk-show host with no scientific background, to the position, but he withdrew his name and no new nomination has been made. 
These and other decisions have consequences for public health and safety and the economy. Both the Interior Department and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration have disbanded climate science advisory committees. The Food and Drug Administration disbanded its Food Advisory Committee, which provided guidance on food safety. 
Government-funded scientists said in interviews that they were seeing signs that their work was being suppressed, and that they were leaving their government jobs to work in the private sector, or for other countries. 
After Mr. Trump last year withdrew from the Paris climate agreement, the international pact committing nations to tackle global warming, France started a program called "Make Our Planet Great Again" -- named in reference to Mr. Trump's slogan, "Make America Great Again" -- to lure the best American scientists to France. The program has so far provided funding for 24 scientists from the United States and other countries to do their research in France. 
The White House declined to comment on these and other suggestions that the role of science in policymaking has been diminished in the Trump administration. Regarding the coming talks with Mr. Kim, a spokesman for the White House's National Security Council, Garrett Marquis, emphasized that "the president's advisers are experts in their fields." 
The larger matter, though, is the president's lack of a close senior adviser at the White House level, someone who has Mr. Trump's trust and his ear, said Michael Oppenheimer, a professor of geosciences and international affairs at Princeton. 
"I don't think there's ever been a time in the post-World War II period where issues as important as nuclear weapons are on the table, and there is no serious scientist there to help the president through the thicket," he said. "This reverberates throughout policy." 
There are exceptions to the retreat from science. In April, scientists bristled when Jim Bridenstine, a former Republican congressman from Oklahoma who is not a scientist, took over the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. Mr. Bridenstine had questioned whether human activity is the primary cause of global warming. 
But last month Mr. Bridenstine testified before a Senate committee that he had experienced a climate-science conversion. Asked if he believed greenhouse gases are the primary cause of the warming planet, he responded, "Yes." 
His own agency, he said, has found it "extremely likely that human activity is the dominant cause of global warming, and I have no reason to doubt the science." 
Mr. Bridenstine described his views as an "evolution." 
Moments like these are not the norm, however. More than 1,000 members of the National Academy of Sciences signed a statement in April criticizing the Trump administration's decision to withdraw the United States from the Paris Agreement. "The dismissal of scientific evidence in policy formulation has affected wide areas of the social, biological, environmental and physical sciences," the statement said. 
The most pressing geopolitical need may be in the realm of nuclear diplomacy. 
While the State Department declined to characterize the makeup of its preparatory team for the North Korea meeting, set for Tuesday in Singapore, Mr. Trump could of course tap any number of government nuclear physicists to accompany him. 
And Mr. Marquis, the National Security Council spokesman, emphasized that many of the president's advisers "have advanced degrees and have worked on these complex issues in and out of government." 
"The materials that have gone to the president ahead of the negotiation reflect the work of more than a dozen people at the Ph.D. level in relevant fields," he added, including "at least one" in nuclear engineering. 
A State Department spokeswoman referred questions to the National Security Council. 
Nevertheless, as Mr. Trump prepares for the talks, he has no close aides on par with those who helped President Barack Obama negotiate a nuclear deal with Iran. Mr. Obama's advisers included Ernest J. Moniz, a nuclear physicist who led the Energy Department and oversaw the nation's nuclear weapons arsenal, and John Holdren, a physicist and expert in nuclear arms control who served as the White House science adviser. 
"There is going to be the requirement for trade-offs, and that judgment is best made by people with technical expertise who are also very senior politically," Mr. Moniz said. "That just does not exist in this administration." 
Of course, Mr. Trump was an outspoken critic of Mr. Obama's Iran deal and withdrew from it last month. 
As for Mr. Kim's advisers, "The North Korean nuclear scientists are very, very competent and I would expect them to advise their government well," said Siegfried S. Hecker, a former director of the Los Alamos weapons laboratory in New Mexico and an expert on North Korea's nuclear weapons program. 
Ground Zero: The E.P.A. 
In Washington, the administration's excising of science is particularly evident at the Environmental Protection Agency. 
Scott Pruitt, the embattled head of the E.P.A., is the subject of at least 12 government investigations into his first-class travel, costly security detail and management of the agency. At the same time he has won praise from Mr. Trump for his speed at rolling back environmental regulations. 
Mr. Pruitt has initiated more than a dozen regulatory rollbacks, including signing a measure declaring his intent to undo or weaken Mr. Obama's climate change regulations known as the Clean Power Plan. 
However, his more enduring legacy may be in diminishing the role of academic, peer-reviewed science at the agency. "It's not Pruitt's exorbitant spending, but rather a lot of these less sexy things they're quietly doing on science that will cause the real long-term damage," said Gretchen Goldman, the research director for the Center for Science and Democracy at the Union of Concerned Scientists, a nonprofit group. 
Mr. Pruitt has begun to systematically change how the E.P.A. treats science. In April, he proposed a regulation that would limit the types of scientific research that E.P.A. officials could take into account when crafting new public health policies, a change that could weaken the agency's ability to protect public health. 
The new rules would require that the data from all scientific studies used by the E.P.A. to formulate air and water regulations be publicly available. Mr. Pruitt has touted that as a step toward increasing scientific transparency. "The era of secret science at E.P.A. is coming to an end," he said in a statement. "The ability to test, authenticate and reproduce scientific findings is vital for the integrity of rule-making process." 
However, the change could sharply limit the research available to the E.P.A., because health studies routinely rely on confidential data from individuals. 
Last year, Mr. Pruitt significantly altered two major scientific panels that advise the E.P.A. on writing public health rules, restricting academic researchers from joining the boards while appointing several scientists who work for industries regulated by the E.P.A. 
These and other changes "will diminish the characterization of pollution as risky," said William K. Reilly, who headed the E.P.A. under the first President George Bush. "This tolerance for more exposure to pollution is altogether different from anything we are used to." 
In a statement defending the changes to the committees, Jahan Wilcox, an E.P.A. spokesman, said that the agency "sought a wider range of voices" and "was thrilled with the response of over 700 applicants." The boards, he said, are not only highly qualified but also "independent and geographically diverse." 
This year, Mr. Pruitt sent a memo to the E.P.A.'s Clean Air Scientific Advisory Committee ordering steps that could effectively diminish the role of scientific evidence in air pollution enforcement. The committee is required by law to prioritize the health effects of pollution, but Mr. Pruitt's memo orders it to consider potential economic consequences of meeting tighter clean-air rules -- for example, the possibility that tougher pollution standards could make air-conditioning more expensive, leading to more deaths from heat. 
"This memo flouts the clear evidence of medical science," said John Walke, an expert in clean-air policy at the Natural Resources Defense Council, an advocacy organization. "Pruitt wants to set a definition of clean air that is medically unsafe." 
The agency, after heavy lobbying by the chemicals industry, is also in the process of scaling back the way the government determines risks associated with dangerous chemicals, The New York Times recently reported. 
Jettisoning 'Guidance' Files 
A little-noticed change at the Justice Department could have far-reaching impact on the role of science in federal policy across the government. 
This year the Justice Department announced it would no longer use "guidance documents," which are written by experts at other agencies, to enforce laws. "This change makes a lot of the big, science-based laws unenforceable," said Dr. Goldman of the Union of Concerned Scientists. 
For decades, enforcement of major health and environmental laws -- including the Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act, Endangered Species Act and laws governing food safety and exposure to chemicals -- has relied heavily on guidance documents written by scientists at the E.P.A., Agriculture Department, Food and Drug Administration and other agencies that supply the specific interpretation of how to carry out the laws. Guidance documents might, for instance, detail how industries should monitor and report their pollution, or how food makers should watch for food-borne illnesses. 
A spokesman for the Justice Department said in an email that the new guidance policy would not affect the enforcement of science-based laws. "The Department of Justice continues to aggressively and successfully enforce the nation's laws, including environmental and health laws," the spokesman said, on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak on the record. "Assertions to the contrary are incorrect." 
At the Department of Agriculture, the agency is redefining part of its core mission, the scientific monitoring of food safety, to emphasize promoting exports of American farm products. Last year, the agency's secretary, Sonny Perdue, created a new under secretary of trade to push exports worldwide. He also moved an office devoted to international 
food-safety issues from the agency's Food Safety and Inspection Service to its new Trade and Foreign Agricultural Affairs office. 
Putting the management of food safety under the aegis of trade, rather than science, "undermines the whole history that the U.S. has for science-based standards for food," said Catherine E. Woteki, a former chief scientist at the agency from 2010 to 2017. 
A department spokesman said the decision to move the office, known as Codex, came in response to aggressive trade measures by other countries, and that food safety would not be affected. 
The agency "makes decisions based on sound science, data and evidence," said the spokesman, Tim Murtaugh. "Unfortunately, we have seen other nations use food safety standards as weapons in trade relations, manipulated for protectionist purposes," he said. "Moving Codex to the mission area where U.S.D.A. coordinates all international activity simply makes sense." 
Scientists Resign 
The Interior Department secretary, Ryan Zinke, is working to carry out Mr. Trump's campaign pledge to open public lands to extract oil, gas and coal. At the same time, though, his agency has pulled back from examining the health risks to fossil fuel workers. 
In August, the department halted a study by the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine into links between surface mining and health, specifically the exposure to coal dust in the air and drinking water. "We never got a clear reason why it was canceled," said Marcia McNutt, president of the National Academy of Sciences. 
Her organization reached out to other possible donors to continue funding it, said Dr. McNutt, but was unable to find takers. "If the government didn't want to know the answers, it was hard to justify funding this," she said. 
Several Interior Department scientists have resigned to protest actions like these that are perceived as undermining research. 
Last June, at least two dozen senior career officials at the department were told they would be reassigned to new positions. While it is not unusual for new administrations to make personnel moves, some said the moves appeared intended to undermine the department's environmental research. 
Among them was Joel Clement, a climate change scientist who was reassigned to an office overseeing fees from fossil fuel drilling. He viewed it as an effort to push him to resign. Months later, he did. 
"The reassignment letter seemed clearly retaliatory," he said. "I was a top climate adviser, and they reassigned me to collect money from oil companies -- come on." 
Heather Swift, a spokeswoman for the Interior Department, said, "The president signed an executive order to reorganize the federal government for the future and the secretary has been absolutely out front on that issue." She said that Mr. Clement and others took their jobs "knowing that they could be called upon to work in different positions at any time." 
Ms. Swift did not respond to other questions about the agency. 
In January, the majority of members of the Interior Department's National Park System Advisory Board, which advises on management of national parks, resigned to protest Trump administration policies. Tony Knowles, the former head of the board, said that Mr. Zinke "appears to have no interest in continuing the agenda of science, the effect of climate change, pursuing the protection of the ecosystem." 
Beyond the Interior Department, government scientists say they are feeling a rising indifference to their work, as well as occasional open hostility, that is triggering a brain drain. 
Among the scientists who have chosen to move on is Ben Sanderson of the National Center for Atmospheric Research in Boulder, Colo., whose research focuses on the impact of climate change on society. In the Trump administration, "To talk about climate risk when connected to human activity is now a no-no if you want to get government funding," Dr. Sanderson said. 
Last year, he saw a way out: the French government's "Make Our Planet Great Again" program. Dr. Sanderson was awarded a $1.8 million, five-year grant to work for Météo-France, the national weather forecaster, at its campus in Toulouse. 
"The French program was offering an opportunity to work on climate impacts -- the work that's at the core of my research," Dr. Sanderson said. That kind of science, he said, "is increasingly difficult to do in the U.S." 

Photograph 
President Trump is the first president since 1941 not to name a science adviser. The absence of such high-level expertise could put him at a disadvantage. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM BRENNER/THE NEW YORK TIMES); Scott Pruitt, top, the Environmental Protection Agency administrator, has won praise from Mr. Trump for his speed at rolling back environmental regulations. Above, Ryan Zinke, the secretary of the Interior Department, which has abruptly halted a study into links between surface mining and health. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOM BRENNER/THE NEW YORK TIMES; RYAN DAVID BROWN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) Copyright New York Times Company Jun 10, 2018 
Subject 	Nominations; 
Scientists; 
Science; 
Arms control & disarmament; 
Councils; 
National security; 
Global warming; 
Presidents; 
Negotiations; 
Advisors; 
Nuclear weapons; 

Climate change; 
Congressional committees 


Location 	United States--US 
People  Trump, Donald J; Perdue, Sonny  
Company / organization  Name:  National Security Council  
NAICS:  928110  

URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/09/climate/trump-administration-science.html  
Title  In the Trump Administration, Science Is Unwelcome. So Is Advice.: [National Desk]  
Author  Davenport, Coral  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.1  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Jun 10, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2052508008  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2052508008?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Jun 10, 2018  
Last updated  2019-08-05  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 119 of 236 


The Secret Life and Value of Trees: [Op-Ed] 
Egan, Timothy.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]09 June 2018: A.22. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=The+Secret+Life+and+Value+of+Trees%3A+%5BOp­Ed%5D&title=New+York+Times&issn=03624331&date=2018-06­09&volume=&issue=&spage=A.22&au=Egan%2C+Timothy&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
While we were obsessing over the self-obsessive one, people who take a much longer view of things have been debating the question of whether trees talk to one another, experience pain, have sex and send out signals of distress about the imminent collapse of this little planet of ours. 
Trees are sociable, it turns out, and even somewhat selfless, nurturing their drought-stricken or wounded arboreal siblings. They share nutrients. They suffer when a big arm is lopped during the growing season, or a crown is next to an all-night light. Some trees warn other trees of danger by releasing chemical drifts. 
I found these relatively new discoveries not long after a giant fir came crashing down in my front yard during a freakish windstorm, nearly crushing my family and our century-old house. We were spared by six inches. But a question remained: What was the big guy trying to say? 
Perhaps it has something to do with the 129 million trees that died from climate-change-aggravated drought and beetle infestation in California, or the five million acres of formerly sylvan green wiped out in Colorado by the same plague. Or maybe it's a president who dictated the largest single rollback of public land protection in our history, putting a national monument and its ancient flora at risk from predators with political connections. 
Trees are fighting back, helped by others doing the talking for them. Sadly, we are past the point when an appeal to our better angels does any good. "It is worse than boorish, it is criminal to inflict an unnecessary injury on the tree that feeds or shadows us," wrote Henry David Thoreau. "Old trees are our parents, and our parents' parents, perchance." A lovely sentiment, but largely futile. 
Instead, in this moment of mercenary politics, those of us who are out-proud tree-huggers have taken to citing the bottom line. And the winning argument here is simple: Trees are a vast source of wealth. A single national forest, the 1.7-million-acre Mount Baker-Snoqualmie east of Seattle, may be worth more in total value than the annual revenue of Amazon, the world's largest online retailer, according to a recent study by the Wilderness Society. 
The clean water, timber, cultural and recreation opportunities of this one forest deliver more economic value than all of the failing American coal industry. The entire outdoor recreation sector generates at least $373 billion in gross domestic product, more than the gas, oil and mining industry, the government reported this year. 
"I have mixed feelings about monetizing the geography of hope," said Peter Jackson, a writer and conservationist, using one of the best-known phrases of Wallace Stegner. A wilderness in the Cascade Mountains is named for his late father, Senator Henry M. Jackson, a giant of Congress from an era when support for purple mountain majesties was bipartisan. 
So why is the Trump administration trying to prop up unprofitable coal plants, in a move that could cost consumers hundreds of millions of dollars, while an unsubsidized industry based on nature's glories has to fight the administration? Plus, coal-burning, one of the biggest producers of earth-warming carbon, is an indirect killer of those life-supporting and economy-enhancing forests. 
The president is a fossil fool, but beyond that, he's never taken a view that extends to the world that Ivanka's grandchildren will inherit. His bias for dirty 19th-century energy is based on pleasing a coal industry that has gone from employing 883,000 people in the 1920s to barely 50,000 now. If the free-market philosophy were still the bedrock principle of governing Republicans, coal would be left to the creative destruction of capitalism. 
Beyond the economic value, trees force us to measure time in epochs. In 1870, Victor Hugo planted a tree outside his home in exile on the island of Guernsey. His hope was that when the little sapling was a mighty oak, Europe would be unified. The European Union and Hugo's plant are still standing, though the tree may be in better shape than the 
E.U. 
A spruce in Sweden, which sprouted sometime after the last ice age, is 9,500 years old, having survived all the upheavals of history and weather. But will it live through the current era? 
In "The Hidden Life of Trees," an international best seller by Peter Wohlleben, and "The Overstory," a masterful new novel by Richard Powers, forests are main characters, crying to be heard. In the summer, Powers writes, water traveling through a single chestnut "disperses out of the million tiny mouths of the undersides of leaves, a hundred gallons a day evaporating from the tree's airy crown into the humid Iowa air." 
Some scientists think it's wrong to anthropomorphize trees. They aren't sentient life-forms, and can't really "talk" like that grumpy apple tree Dorothy encounters on the way to Oz. But surely they communicate, through a system that foresters compare to the neural networks of humans. It's worth a listen. 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 
Copyright New York Times Company Jun 9, 2018 
Subject  Trees;  
Anthropomorphism  
People  Thoreau, Henry David (1817-1862)  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/08/opinion/the-secret-life-and-value-of-trees.html  
Title  The Secret Life and Value of Trees: [Op-Ed]  
Author  Egan, Timothy  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.22  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Jun 9, 2018  
column  Contributing Op-Ed Writer  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  2052512475  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2052512475?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Jun 9, 2018  
Last updated  2019-08-08  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 120 of 236 


E.P.A. Chief Has Cozy Ties To Coal Baron: [National Desk] 
Eder, Steve; Tabuchi, Hiroko; Lipton, Eric.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]03 June 2018: A.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=E.P.A.+Chief+Has+Cozy+Ties+To+Coal+Baron%3A+%5BNational+Desk%5D&tit 06­03&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Eder%2C+Steve%3BTabuchi%2C+Hiroko%3BLipton%2C+Eric&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
LEXINGTON, Ky. -- It was one of the biggest games of the University of Kentucky basketball season, and Scott Pruitt had scored two of the best seats in the arena: a few feet from the action, in a section reserved for season-ticket holders who had donated at least $1 million to the university. 
The special access for Mr. Pruitt, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, also included watching from the players' entrance as the team streamed onto the court, and posing for a photo with a star player in the locker room area. 
But there was more to the game last December than a superfan experience for Mr. Pruitt and his son, who joined him. They sat in seats belonging to Joseph W. Craft III, a billionaire coal executive who has engaged in an aggressive campaign to reverse the Obama administration's environmental crackdown on the coal industry. Mr. Craft and his wife donated more than $2 million to support President Trump's candidacy and inauguration. 
Mr. Pruitt's attendance at the game, the details of which have not been previously reported, followed a year of regulatory victories for Mr. Craft, who maintains close ties to Mr. Pruitt even as he has lobbied the E.P.A. on issues important to his company, Alliance Resource Partners. And unlike other executives with whom Mr. Pruitt is known to have close ties -- like the oilman Harold Hamm or the coal mogul Robert E. Murray -- Mr. Craft has stayed relatively under the radar. 
A major contributor to Mr. Pruitt's campaigns in Oklahoma when Mr. Pruitt served in state government, Mr. Craft saw Mr. Pruitt at least seven times during his first 14 months at the E.P.A., agency records and emails show, and they were scheduled to appear together on at least two other occasions. That is more than Mr. Pruitt has met with representatives of any environmental group. 
The relationship is so close that the two men trade text messages, with Mr. Craft proposing in one July 2017 exchange a possible "long-awaited" dinner and another visit with his company's executives. 
It has been an auspicious turnaround for Alliance and for Mr. Craft, who in nearly four decades in the coal industry had felt unwelcome at the E.P.A., apparently never even setting foot in the agency's headquarters, one executive told an energy conference last November. 
Mr. Pruitt's mostly behind-the-scenes relationship with Mr. Craft is emblematic of his unorthodox approach to leading the E.P.A., where he often blurs the lines between personal and official relationships and has created the impression at times that he does the bidding of the industries the agency regulates. As administrator, he has become the subject of a dozen ethical and other investigations, including several focused on his ties to lobbyists and others with business before his agency. 
In October, Mr. Pruitt traveled to Mr. Craft's childhood hometown, Hazard, Ky., where, with Mr. Craft in the audience, he announced the repeal of the Clean Power Plan, an Obama-era policy to curb greenhouse gas emissions from power plants. A month earlier, Mr. Pruitt postponed enforcement of a rule barring coal-powered plants from dumping toxic metals into rivers, a move requested by a coal industry group with Mr. Craft on its board. 
Emails and schedules show that Mr. Craft and Mr. Pruitt planned to meet at the Ritz-Carlton resort in Naples, Fla., for a gathering of the National Mining Association's board of directors. Mr. Pruitt even met with the board of Mr. Craft's company in a private dining room at the Trump International Hotel near the White House, according to schedules and emails made public by the E.P.A. in response to records requests. 
There was no mention on Mr. Pruitt's official calendar of the Kentucky basketball game outing, but it was documented in photos and video footage, as well as university communications obtained by The New York Times through public records requests. Mr. Pruitt was accompanied not only by his security detail on the trip, but also by Kentucky state police, according to an email exchange between university police officers. 
Heath Lovell, vice president for public affairs at Alliance, said that Mr. Pruitt had wanted to take his son to the game while visiting Lexington, and had reached out to Mr. Craft, who sold him the tickets at "market value." 
Jahan Wilcox, an E.P.A. spokesman, said that Mr. Pruitt paid $130 in cash for each ticket. An email from the E.P.A. ethics office approving in advance the purchase of the tickets said that payment would be made by check, but since it was a cash transaction, there is no receipt. 
"Administrator Pruitt and Joe Craft are longtime friends," Mr. Wilcox said. He did not respond to follow-up questions about why Mr. Pruitt paid in cash. 
Mr. Craft gained access to the tickets as a major financial backer of the university, having donated more than $10 million to the school to help build basketball and football training facilities, both of which bear his name. His wife, Kelly Knight Craft, was previously a trustee of the university and a prolific Republican fund-raiser until she was appointed by Mr. Trump last year as United States ambassador to Canada. 
Mr. Craft, 67, and Mr. Pruitt, 50, have deep ties to Kentucky. Mr. Pruitt, who was born and raised in the state, briefly played baseball at the University of Kentucky on a scholarship; Mr. Craft, also a Kentucky native, earned both his undergraduate and law degrees from the university. Both men later advanced their professional lives in Oklahoma, where Alliance has its corporate headquarters and where Mr. Pruitt served as a Republican state lawmaker and attorney general before joining the Trump administration. 
The two met in Oklahoma in the mid-2000s, Mr. Lovell said, when Mr. Pruitt sought out the coal executive after his hearing about his connection to Kentucky sports. Mr. Craft 

owns a mansion in Tulsa about a mile from Mr. Pruitt's home. 
Their targeting of the Obama-era controls imposed on the coal industry has angered environmentalists, who praised efforts by the E.P.A. under the Obama administration to 
reduce lead and other toxic substances in power plant emissions, while also addressing climate change concerns related to carbon dioxide releases. 

"The slash-and-burn approach Pruitt is taking to regulation may not materially affect outcomes in the coal industry," said Tom FitzGerald, director of the Kentucky Resources 

Council, an environmental advocacy group. "But it's not going to stop them from trying in the short term, health and safety be damned." 
Coal companies have welcomed what they consider a sea change in the federal government's approach to balancing business interests with environmental protections. The 
industry, a shadow of its former self in terms of production and employment, views the Trump administration as offering it an overdue lifeline. 

"The fact that industry no longer has an adversary in its government, and specifically at the E.P.A., is a huge step forward in common-sense regulation," said Ashley Burke, a 
spokeswoman for the National Mining Association. 
Mr. Lovell said that while Alliance welcomed the changes Mr. Pruitt had brought to the E.P.A., the coal company had not been treated differently from its industry peers. 
"We did not receive any special treatment from the E.P.A.," Mr. Lovell said. 
A Friend at the E.P.A. 

For years, coal companies have struggled with the industry's decline. 
There has been a fundamental shift in the way electricity is generated in the United States, with cleaner energy sources such as natural gas, wind and solar power ascendant. 
And many older coal-burning power plants are reaching the end of their useful lives. 

Since 2010, 628 coal-burning units at power plants in 43 states -- totaling almost 115,000 megawatts of electrical capacity, roughly equivalent to the entire electricity supply of 

Texas -- have closed or are scheduled to, according to an industry count. 
But with the arrival of the Trump administration, Alliance Resource Partners, the country's seventh-largest coal mining company, and many others in the industry sounded the 
alarm -- and ever since have directed their efforts at getting Mr. Pruitt to intervene on their behalf. 

"It is critically important to preserve the fleet of existing coal-fired power plants," the American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity, an industry group where Mr. Craft is a board member and a past chairman, said in a letter in April to the E.P.A. 
When Mr. Pruitt announced the repeal of the Clean Power Plan last October, miners in attendance cheered as he declared, "The war on coal is over." 
The E.P.A. was no longer in the business of "picking winners and losers," he added, a reference to the Obama-era restrictions that the industry has argued put coal producers at 
a disadvantage. 

In the audience, Mr. Craft spoke glowingly about the new direction. "It gives us the opportunity to protect the coal fleet," he told a local broadcaster. 

As the industry has retreated in recent years -- total employment was just over 50,000 in January, down from 90,000 in 2012 -- Alliance has fared better than most. As of 
December, it had 3,321 full-time employees at its headquarters and eight mines in Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky and West Virginia. 
The company increased production last year by nearly 7 percent, in part because it specializes in a relatively cheap, high-sulfur coal that can be scrubbed with existing pollution 

controls at most power plants. 

"They've chosen some good mines, so their costs are not being driven up like others," said Tom Sanzillo, a researcher at the Institute for Energy Economics and Financial 
Analysis, a clean energy think tank. 
Mr. Craft wants to grow even more -- allowing "existing fleets to expand their capacity," he said during an earnings call in January 2017, and exporting more coal -- and he 

moved quickly last year to get Mr. Pruitt on board, according to public records. 

Mr. Craft sat front and center in Washington as Mr. Trump signed an executive order in March 2017, unwinding some of the Obama administration's climate change efforts 
directed at the coal industry. "You know what it says, right? You're going back to work," the president gushed to a group of miners, a smiling Mr. Pruitt by his side. 
The next month, Mr. Craft and his wife were both listed as attending the board meeting of the National Mining Association in Florida, where 100 or so coal industry executives 

gathered. 
"It will be wonderful to see the Crafts," Sydney Hupp, then an aide to Mr. Pruitt at the E.P.A., said in an email setting up the event. 
After Mr. Pruitt spoke to the group, the board backed the Trump administration's decision to leave the Paris climate agreement. The E.P.A.'s inspector general is investigating an 

allegation that the board's decision came at Mr. Pruitt's request, which could amount to a violation of anti-lobbying laws. 
The allegations, first reported by Politico, were denied by Ms. Burke, the spokeswoman for the association. 
And just two days after the Florida trip, Mr. Pruitt spoke to members of the Alliance board and other top executives at a restaurant at the Trump hotel in Washington. 
Ms. Craft, who helped plan the event, wrote to Mr. Pruitt's staff the night before. "Joe will be waiting for Scott at the designated entrance," she said in an email, signing off, 

"Sent by my coal powered iPad." 
Mr. Wilcox, the E.P.A. spokesman, said that Mr. Pruitt's appearance had been cleared by agency ethics officials and that he did not eat dinner at the event. 
Documents show that Mr. Craft and others in the industry have sought the E.P.A.'s help, particularly in decreasing costs related to air and water pollution controls at coal-

powered plants. 

The companies have asked the agency to roll back at least eight Obama-era rules regulating water pollution, climate change, coal ash and air pollution, among other measures. Almost all the rules affect the 30 plants that burn coal supplied by Alliance, including a plant that powers Henderson, Ky., about 200 miles west of Lexington. 
Alliance's Warrior Coal mine, which has a contract to supply coal to the Henderson plant, is 30 miles away in western Kentucky, where the stillness of the hills is interrupted by the drone of the mine's ventilation fan and the occasional movement of rail cars. 
To continue burning the coal under current regulations, Henderson must build a $34 million water treatment plant to keep toxic metals from discharging into a nearby river. And it must spend $21 million more to clean up its handling of coal waste -- which now sits in a giant unsightly pond near the plant -- as well as $16 million to overhaul electricity-generating turbines. 
"It certainly doesn't make sense to keep them operating as is," said Chris Heimgartner, general manager of the Henderson utility that owns the plant, as steam billowed from the aging dual-stacks in the distance behind him. "There is just too much cheap energy." 
Mr. Craft and other coal industry executives fear this conclusion will mean shutting down the coal-burning furnaces. That's why, in May last year, they complained to the E.P.A. that the water treatment requirement was "projected to cost electricity generators hundreds of millions to billions of dollars." Ten days later, Mr. Pruitt announced that he would postpone the rule for at least two years. 
A Day at the Game 
Basketball is king in Lexington, and on a bitterly cold afternoon last December, Mr. Pruitt was in the middle of the action as Kentucky beat its in-state rival, the University of Louisville, in a nationally televised game. 
Because his seat was so close to the court, he was visible during the telecast. A video clip on Twitter and Instagram showed Mr. Pruitt and his college-age son, Cade, standing in the players' entrance as the team walked to the court. 
Emails show that a security agent from Mr. Pruitt's staff coordinated with university police to make arrangements for his visit. Matt Bevin, Kentucky's governor, a Republican, planned to be part of Mr. Pruitt's group, and they were to be accompanied by an E.P.A. security detail and Kentucky state police officers, the emails said. Police were also informed of Mr. Pruitt's premium seats and his plans to visit the Crafts, along with the locker room complex largely funded by Mr. Craft and named for him. 
In a message on Twitter, Ms. Craft posted a photo of herself with Mr. Pruitt and Shai Gilgeous-Alexander, the player of the game. "Great to see @EPAScottPruitt," she wrote, using his Twitter handle. The Crafts, who have 26 season tickets, did not sit with Mr. Pruitt and his son during the game. (The season tickets used by Mr. Pruitt cost $1,300 each, the equivalent of $130 per game, the university said.) 
The Crafts are larger-than-life figures at the University of Kentucky. In addition to supporting the facilities bearing his name, Mr. Craft led a $7 million fund-raising effort for a dormitory for the basketball team that he requested be called Wildcat Coal Lodge. 
At a university where there is a statue of one legendary coach and an arena named for another, the current coach, John Calipari, is one of the most well-known figures in the game. Closely aligned with the Crafts, he has visited Alliance mines and spoken effusively about the company. 
Tony Oppegard, a lawyer based in Lexington and a former Kentucky mine safety prosecutor, described Mr. Craft as a powerful presence in a state with weak safety and environmental oversight that relies on federal regulations and enforcement. 
"He wields a lot of influence," Mr. Oppegard said. 
At the federal level, Mr. Craft bet big on Mr. Trump. 
The Crafts donated more than $1 million to political committees supporting Mr. Trump's presidential bid, campaign finance records show, and held a fund-raiser for him in Lexington in July 2016. Mr. Craft, through a trust, also donated $1 million to his inauguration. 
"The Trump administration does appreciate the value that coal-fired electricity brings to the nation," Mr. Craft told investors soon after Mr. Trump was sworn in as president. 
Mr. Craft backed Mr. Pruitt when he ran for Oklahoma attorney general in 2010. 
As attorney general, Mr. Pruitt directed state officials to challenge the E.P.A., including a lawsuit that accused the agency of improperly trying to compel two Oklahoma coal-burning power plants to overhaul their emissions systems to improve air quality in nearby federal wilderness areas. That regulation affected plants fueled with coal from Alliance's mines. 
By 2013, Mr. Craft, his company and nearly a dozen other coal industry lawyers, consultants and executives were contributing to Mr. Pruitt's bid for a second term, even though he faced no real opposition. Many of those donations came in November 2013, just weeks after Mr. Pruitt disclosed that he would ask the Supreme Court to take up the case involving the Oklahoma power plants. Mr. Pruitt ultimately lost that case. 
The next year, Alliance helped host a meeting in Miami of the Republican Attorneys General Association, which Mr. Pruitt had led as chairman. Separately, the clean coal electricity group, where Mr. Craft was formerly chairman, donated $388,550 to the attorneys general organization during the final three years that Mr. Pruitt was a member. 
Even with the changes under Mr. Pruitt's E.P.A., the coal industry faces formidable obstacles, particularly because of the abundance of cheap natural gas. 
The Henderson plant is already moving toward a likely shutdown of its coal-burning units, Mr. Heimgartner said, making it one of at least nine power plants supplied by Alliance in the last year that are considering closing or have announced partial or complete shutdowns, an analysis by the Sierra Club shows. 
Mr. Pruitt continues to work through the industry wish list, pleasing Mr. Craft and his team, whose allies also include Ryan Zinke, the interior secretary, and Rick Perry, the energy secretary. Mr. Craft supports an effort by Mr. Perry to force electric grid operators to buy power from struggling coal-burning plants, even if it means higher rates for consumers. 
"The Trump administration has done amazing things," Mr. Lovell, of Alliance, said at the energy conference in Houston last November. "We are well on the way." 
Credit: STEVE EDER, HIROKO TABUCHI and ERIC LIPTON; Steve Eder reported from Kentucky, Hiroko Tabuchi from New York and Eric Lipton from Washington. Marc Tracy contributed reporting from New York, and Lisa Friedman from Washington. 
Photograph 
As chief of the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt has enacted policies favorable to the coal executive Joseph W. Craft III, left, a close friend with whom he met at least seven times during his first 14 months in office. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC VANCE/US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY); Above, Mr. Craft and his wife, Kelly Knight Craft, donated more than $2 million to President Trump's campaign and inauguration. Top, Mr. Pruitt, right of center with glasses, in Mr. Craft's seats at a Kentucky bas- ketball game. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATT GOINS; MICHAEL HUANG) (A16); CHRIS HEIMGARTNER, general manager of a plant near Henderson, Ky., that burns Alliance coal. The 
company must build a $34 million water treatment plant there, but after lobbying by industry executives, including Joseph W. Craft III, Scott Pruitt said he would postpone the rule. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16-A17) CHART: When Scott Pruitt Met With Joseph W. Craft III (Sources: Mr. Pruitt's official calendar; 
New York Times reporting) (A16) 
Copyright New York Times Company Jun 3, 2018 

Subject  Government agencies; Political finance; Environmental regulations; Coal industry; Regulatory agencies; Campaign contributions; Wilderness areas; Environmental protection; Friendship; Influence; Lobbying; Shutdowns; Power plants  
Location  United States--US; Kentucky  
People  Trump, Donald J; Craft, Joseph W III; Pruitt, Scott; Bevin, Matt  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Republican Party 813940;  
Name: NAICS:  University of Kentucky 611310;  
Name: NAICS:  Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 924110  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/02/us/scott-pruitt-coal-joseph-craft.html  
Title  E.P.A. Chief Has Cozy Ties To Coal Baron: [National Desk]  
Author  Eder, Steve; Tabuchi, Hiroko; Lipton, Eric  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.1  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Jun 3, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2048880651  

Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2048880651?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Jun 3, 2018  
Last updated  2019-08-14  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 121 of 236 



The Californization Of American Politics: [Op-Ed] 
Kettmann, Steve.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]03 June 2018: SR.1. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=The+Californization+Of+American+Politics%3A+%5BOp­Ed%5D&title=New+York+Times&issn=03624331&date=2018-06­03&volume=&issue=&spage=SR.1&au=Kettmann%2C+Steve&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
SOQUEL, Calif. -- Across the country, Democrats are winning primaries by promoting policies like universal health insurance and guaranteed income -- ideas once laughed off as things that work only on the "Left Coast." 
At the same time, national politicians from both sides are finally putting front and center issues that California has been grappling with for years: immigration, clean energy, police reform, suburban sprawl. And the state is home to a crop of politicians to watch, from Kevin McCarthy on the right to Gavin Newsom and Kamala Harris on the left, part of a wave that is likely to dominate American politics for the next generation. 
California, which holds its primaries on Tuesday, has long set the national agenda on the economy, culture and technology. So maybe it was just a matter of time before it got back to driving the political agenda, as it did when Ronald Reagan launched his political career in the 1960s. But other things are happening as well. The state is a hub for immigrants, a testing site for solutions to environmental crises and a front line in America's competition with China. On all sorts of big issues that matter now and will in the future, California is already in the game. 
In a way, California even gave us Donald Trump. So much of his "training" to be president came while he was an entertainment celebrity, on a show that, for a stretch of its existence, was produced in Los Angeles. And of course the means of his ascent -- the smartphone, social media -- came out of Silicon Valley. That's a lot to have on a state's conscience. 
California is a deep-blue state -- only 26 percent of its residents approve of Mr. Trump, and Democrats dominate the Legislature, statewide offices and most large city governments. But the state's leaders are also aware that setting the political agenda for the country means making a stark break with naked partisanship. Getting that right will determine whether California, in its newly dominant role, perpetuates the political divide or moves America past it. 
For decades, California, even as it grew in size and wealth, was seen as an outlier, unintimidating, superficial and flaky. We were no threat. We were surfer dudes and California girls who got high and turned on, tuned in and dropped out. We spawned Apple and Google, but we also spawned hippies and Hollywood. For a time, our governor was nicknamed Moonbeam. 
As recently as the 2000s, with California at the center of the subprime-mortgage crisis, it was fair to wonder whether we had a future; a popular parlor game was to imagine how the state might be divided up into more manageable statelets. 
That was the old California. 
The new California, back from years of financial trouble, has the fifth-largest economy in the world, ahead of Britain and France. Since 2010, California has accounted for an incredible one-fifth of America's economic growth. Silicon Valley is the default center of the world, home to three of the 10 largest companies in the world by market capitalization. 
California's raw economic power is old news. What's different, just in the past few years, is the combination of its money, population and politics. In the Trump era, the state is reinventing itself as the moral and cultural center of a new America. 
Jerry Brown -- Governor Moonbeam -- is back, and during his second stint in office has been a pragmatic, results-focused technocrat who will leave behind a multibillion-dollar budget surplus when his term ends in January. But he has also been a smart and dogged opponent of the Trump agenda, from his high-profile visits to climate-change negotiations in Europe to substantive talks in Beijing with President Xi Jinping. 
California is hardly monolithic. The region around Bakersfield provides the power base for Mr. McCarthy, the House majority leader and an indefatigable defender of President Trump, who calls him "my Kevin." Other sizable pockets of Trump supporters live along the inland spine of the state, especially in the north near the Oregon border. 
Still, there's no doubt California runs blue -- so blue, people say, that its anti-Trump stance is inevitable. But that's not right; in fact, California defies Mr. Trump -- and is turning even more Democratic -- not for partisan reasons but because his rhetoric and actions are at odds with contemporary American values on issue after issue, as people here see it, and because he seems intent on ignoring the nation's present and future in favor of pushing back the clock. 
California doesn't just oppose Mr. Trump; it offers a better alternative to the America he promises. While Mr. Trump makes hollow promises to states ravaged by the decline of the coal industry, California has been a leader in creating new jobs through renewable energy. 
While Mr. Trump plays the racism card, California pulls in immigrants from all over the world. For California, immigration is not an issue to be exploited to inflame hate and assuage the economic insecurities of those who feel displaced by the 21st-century economy, it's what keeps the state economy churning. 
For us, immigration is not a "Latino" issue. The state's white population arrived so recently that all of us retain a sense of our immigrant status. My great-great-grandfather Gerhard Kettmann left Germany in 1849 and made his way to California during the Gold Rush. That's why everyone is able to unite, even in our diversity. 
And the draw of California is more powerful than ever. People come not only from countries around the globe to work in Silicon Valley -- more than seven in 10 of those employed in tech jobs in San Jose were born outside the United States, according to census data analyzed by The Seattle Times -- they come from all over the country. 
It seems as if every other idealistic young person who worked in the Obama White House or on the Hillary Clinton presidential campaign later moved to California. All these new arrivals create major problems, from housing shortages to insane Los Angeles-style traffic in Silicon Valley. They also create a critical mass of innovation. 
Many Californians see the next decade as a pivot point, when decisions about the environment and the economy will shape America's future for generations to come. "It's 'Mad Max' or 'Star Trek,"' said Gavin Newsom, the lieutenant governor and leading candidate to succeed Governor Brown. It's no mystery which movie he thinks Mr. Trump is directing. 
Nationally, Mr. Newsom is known mostly as a cultural pioneer, having allowed same-sex marriage as the mayor of San Francisco in 2004 -- among the first big-city mayors to do so. But he sees himself in more pragmatic terms, more like a latter-day Robert Kennedy, a believer in the idea that government can do more for the people if it's smarter about trying new ideas and updating old assumptions. 
Mr. Newsom doesn't mind making bold claims, and he and his main Democratic challenger, the former Los Angeles mayor Antonio Villaraigosa, are both vowing to build 500,000 homes in California every year for seven years. He also wants to provide single-payer health care to everyone in the state and commit the state to 100 percent renewable energy for its electricity needs. Sure, these are campaign promises -- but in California, they suddenly seem like practical, feasible ideas. 
California for years was divided between its main population centers. Northern California, birthplace of Berkeley's Free Speech Movement in 1964 and the Summer of Love in San Francisco later that decade, was often at odds with large sections of Southern California, particularly Orange County, a bastion of suburban Republicans. 
That divide is eroding. Orange County even went for Hillary Clinton in 2016. California remains diverse culturally, but politically, it is increasingly unified. That can be a potent engine for social and economic progress; it can also be an excuse for insularity and political grandstanding. 
The key, many of the state's politicians say, is to promote the former without falling into the trap of the latter -- no easy task at a time when many Californians see their state as the base of the anti-Trump resistance. 
Take Vivek Viswanathan. Raised on Long Island by parents who immigrated from India, he did policy work for the Hillary Clinton presidential campaign and Governor Brown and is now running for state treasurer. 
It would be easy for him to run far to the left, mixing anti-Trump rhetoric with unrealistic policy promises. Instead, he wants America to see a different California -- a state that mixes pragmatism and progressivism. 
"I'm one of those people that think the threats that we face from Washington are very real, and not just to the resources we need, but the values that make us who we are," he said. "California is really a model for what the country can be if we make the right choices." 
The first test of a unified California's newfound political heft could come this fall. Democrats need to pick up 24 seats in the House of Representatives to win control of it, and they have their eye on seven California districts carried by Mrs. Clinton in 2016 that have Republican incumbents, including four that are wholly or in part in Orange County. 
Further north, in the Central Valley, a deputy district attorney for Fresno County named Andrew Janz is running a surprisingly competitive race against Devin Nunes, the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee. Mr. Nunes has used his position to defend the president, while providing little congressional oversight -- something that doesn't sit well with even moderate California Republicans. 
"The momentum is definitely on our side," Mr. Janz told me. "My opponent is more concerned about blaming Democrats than getting the job done. The people here honestly want Nunes to focus less on creating these fake controversies and more on doing the work that's required to move us along into the 21st century here in the Central Valley." 
Again and again, this is the message coming from the state's rising politicians -- anger with the president and his allies not out of an ideological commitment, but because the president seems more interested in personal gain than national progress. 
The more visionary among California's leaders, including Mr. Newsom, recognize that their state has the highest poverty rate in the country, by some measures, and that addressing the problem -- through affordable housing, job programs and early education -- has to be a priority. To the extent these are national problems, too, other states may soon be looking to Sacramento, not Washington, for leadership. 
It's also a given that one or more Californians could figure prominently in the 2020 presidential race, including Ms. Harris, a first-term senator who has gained a reputation for her withering examinations of the president's cabinet nominees. Mr. Newsom, particularly if he wins the governor's race this year by a convincing margin, could also make the jump to the national stage, following Ronald Reagan and Jerry Brown. 
To see how different the stereotype of California is from the reality, consider another of the state's rising political figures, the billionaire Tom Steyer. 
To most people in Washington or New York, Mr. Steyer is the "Impeachment Guy" who has spent millions of dollars on television ads in which he speaks to the camera directly and makes a case for the urgent need to impeach President Trump. Impeachment is a widely popular idea among Democrats, but political realists say it's unlikely to happen absent a Democratic surge in the midterm elections -- in other words, that's California for you. 
But at home, Mr. Steyer is anything but a dreamer. His organization NextGen America focuses on developing solutions to climate change and economic inequality, issues that resonate here, especially among the young. The goal is to show the way not through talk, not through TV ads, but through action. 
"I think California has this great advantage, which is we have a functioning democracy," Mr. Steyer said in a recent interview. "With all our problems -- and we have a lot of them, the biggest one being economic inequality -- we have a spirit in business and in politics that says, sure, there are big problems, but we can address them. That spirit is a great advantage and it's not true in Washington, D.C., right now." 
His bet -- and that of millions of others in my state -- is that soon, California will pick up the slack. 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 
AuthorAffiliation 
Steve Kettmann, a columnist for The Santa Cruz Sentinel, is a co-director of the Wellstone Center in the Redwoods. 

Illustration 
DRAWING (DRAWING BY RICHIE POPE) 
Copyright New York Times Company Jun 3, 2018 
Subject  Health insurance; Politics; Political leadership; Economic growth; Political parties; Social networks; Political campaigns; Election results; Morality; Income; Partisanship; Aliens; Employment; Immigration; Political advertising; American culture  
Location  Silicon Valley-California; United States--US; California  
People  Trump, Donald J; Brown, Edmund G Jr (Jerry)  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/02/opinion/sunday/california-progressive-politics.html  
Title  The Californization Of American Politics: [Op-Ed]  
Author  Kettmann, Steve  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  SR.1  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Jun 3, 2018  
Section  SR  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  2048877699  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2048877699?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Jun 3, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-13  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 122 of 236 


Trump Orders Moves To Keep Waning Coal And Nuclear Sites Open: [National Desk] 
Plumer, Brad.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]02 June 2018: A.17. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Trump+Orders+Moves+To+Keep+Waning+Coal+And+Nuclear+Sites+Open%3A+ 06-02&volume=&issue=&spage=A.17&au=Plumer%2C+Brad&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- President Trump has ordered Energy Secretary Rick Perry to "prepare immediate steps" to stop the closing of unprofitable coal and nuclear plants around the country, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said on Friday. 
It remains to be seen what actions Mr. Perry will recommend, but many of the proposals being floated within the Trump administration, according to a leaked internal memo, would involve drastic government intervention in America's energy markets. 
Under one proposal outlined in the memo, which was reported by Bloomberg, the Department of Energy would order grid operators to buy electricity from struggling coal and nuclear plants for two years, using emergency authority that is normally reserved for exceptional crises like natural disasters. 
That idea triggered immediate blowback from a broad alliance of energy companies, consumer groups and environmentalists. On Friday, oil and gas trade groups joined with wind and solar organizations in a joint statement condemning the plan, saying that it was "legally indefensible" and would force consumers to pay more for electricity. 
In her statement, Ms. Sanders said that the ongoing retirement of coal and nuclear plants, which are being pushed out of competitive electricity markets by a glut of natural gas and renewable power, were "leading to a rapid depletion of a critical part of our nation's energy mix, and impacting the resilience of our power grid." 
Grid operators disputed that. PJM Interconnection, which runs the Mid-Atlantic electric grid serving more than 65 million people, said in a statement that its grid was "more reliable than ever," and that any federal intervention "would be damaging to the markets and therefore costly to consumers" by raising electricity prices. 
Mr. Trump, who campaigned on a pledge to revive the coal industry, has so far struggled to fulfill his promise. According to data from the Sierra Club, at least 25 coal plants have shut down since he took office, largely squeezed out by competition from natural gas, wind and solar power. 
In September, in an attempt to stave off those powerful market trends, Mr. Perry asked the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, which oversees regional electricity markets, to consider guaranteeing financial returns for any power plant that could stockpile 90 days' worth of fuel on-site, which could include many coal and nuclear plants. He argued that the loss of such plants would threaten "reliability and resiliency of our nation's grid." 
But in January, the commission unanimously rejected Mr. Perry's request, saying that the nation's grids currently had plenty of spare electric capacity on hand, even with the loss of coal and nuclear units in recent years, and that grid operators had sufficient tools to keep the lights on. 
That hasn't stopped the Trump administration from exploring other options. In April, FirstEnergy Solutions, an Ohio-based utility, announced that it would file for bankruptcy, threatening the future of three nuclear plants and two coal plants in Ohio and Pennsylvania. 
The company had earlier sent a letter to Mr. Perry asking him to save the country's coal and nuclear plants by invoking Section 202(c) of the Federal Power Act, under which the Energy Department can order certain power facilities to stay open in a crisis, such as a hurricane. 
A few days later, Mr. Trump mentioned the idea in public, telling coal miners at a rally in West Virginia: "Nine of your people just came up to me outside. 'Could you talk about 202?' We'll be looking at that 202. You know what a 202 is? We're trying." 
The administration has also discussed invoking the Defense Production Act of 1950, which allows the federal government to intervene in private industry in the name of national security. (Harry S. Truman used the law to impose price controls on the steel industry during the Korean War.) 
But legal experts say that neither law was designed to provide unprofitable industries with extended financial support. 
"The idea of superseding the market for a full two years and directing that purchases be made from specific plants is well beyond any existing use of these statutory powers," said Joel B. Eisen, a professor of law at the University of Richmond in Virginia. 
If the Trump administration were to invoke these two statutes, the move would almost certainly be challenged in federal court by natural gas and renewable energy companies, which could stand to lose market share. 
Depending on what the Trump administration decides, an intervention to prop up unprofitable coal and nuclear plants could cost consumers between $311 million to $11.8 billion per year, according to a preliminary estimate by Robbie Orvis, director of energy policy design at Energy Innovation. 
Some analysts have asserted that there is an environmental case for keeping the nation's ailing nuclear plants open, since, if they closed, their carbon-free electricity would most likely be replaced by natural gas and emissions would rise. A few states, including New York and New Jersey, have offered subsidies to their struggling nuclear plants in the name of fighting climate change. 
There is no environmental argument for keeping open coal plants, which are the most carbon-intensive form of power. 
The leaked memo circulating within the White House does not mention climate change. Instead, it says that the loss of both coal and nuclear plants could threaten national security, given that Department of Defense installations are 99 percent dependent on the grid. 
Among other things, the report asserts that natural gas pipelines are vulnerable to cyberattacks and that coal and nuclear plants are essential during extreme weather because they can keep large amounts of fuel on-hand. 

Photograph 
A power plant in Michigan being demolished in 2015. A proposal by the Department of Energy would order grid operators to buy electricity from struggling coal and nuclear plants for two years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFFREY M. SMITH/THE TIMES HERALD, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) Copyright New York Times Company Jun 2, 2018 
Subject 	Wage & price controls; 
Electricity distribution; 
Intervention; 

Energy industry; 

Natural gas; 
National security; 
Consumers; 

Coal-fired power plants; 
Alternative energy sources 


Location 	New Jersey; Pennsylvania; Virginia; Michigan; West Virginia; New York; Ohio 
People 	Trump, Donald J; Perry, Rick; Sanders, Sarah Huckabee 
Company / organization 	Name: Department of Energy 

NAICS: 926130; 

Name: Department of Defense NAICS: 928110; 
Name: FirstEnergy Solutions NAICS: 221210; 
Name: Sierra Club NAICS: 813312; 
Name: Federal Energy Regulatory Commission--FERC NAICS: 926110, 926130; 
Name: University of Richmond NAICS: 611310; 
Name: PJM Interconnection LLC NAICS: 221121 
URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/01/climate/trump-coal-nuclear-power.html 
Title 	Trump Orders Moves To Keep Waning Coal And Nuclear Sites Open: [National Desk] 
Author 	Plumer, Brad 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.17 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Jun 2, 2018 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2048354584  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2048354584?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Jun 2, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-13  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 123 of 236 


The Silver Lining of Leaving Paris: [Editorial] 
New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]02 June 2018: A.22. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=The+Silver+Lining+of+Leaving+Paris%3A+%5BEditorial%5D&title=New+Yor 06-02&volume=&issue=&spage=A.22&au=&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
One year ago, on June 1, President Trump dismayed the world by announcing his intention to withdraw the United States from the global Paris climate agreement. He has since shown no inclination to ease up on his efforts to nullify virtually every initiative the Obama administration took to limit greenhouse gases from power plants, cars, trucks, and oil and gas operations. His disappearing act could not have been more ill timed. As a result of rapid economic growth in Asia and lower fuel prices worldwide, global energy-related emissions increased in 2017 after holding steady for three years. 
There is, however, a silver lining: the increasing efforts by states and cities to fill the Trump vacuum. No thanks to Mr. Trump, the United States actually bucked the worldwide trend and reduced its emissions in 2017. The 0.5 percent drop in emissions, small but encouraging, was driven partly by market forces -- including the switch from coal to natural gas -- and partly by sustained efforts by climate-conscious states to deploy renewable energy sources like wind and solar power. 
The principal driver of these efforts is the United States Climate Alliance, a coalition of 16 states (plus Puerto Rico) committed to upholding Barack Obama's Paris pledge to reduce United States greenhouse gas emissions 26 percent to 28 percent below 2005 levels by 2025. According to a study last year by the Rhodium Group, these states, which account for almost half of the nation's economy, are on track to meet their share of the burden, with estimated reductions in greenhouse gases of between 24 percent and 29 percent by the 2025 target date -- not enough to get the entire country where Mr. Obama wanted it to be, but progress nonetheless. 
These numbers could well improve with the recent addition to the fold of New Jersey, whose new governor, Philip Murphy, has pledged to reshape the state's energy future. A bill he signed last week would require New Jersey's power companies to generate half their electricity from renewable sources by 2030. Mr. Murphy shrewdly combined this mandate with a $300 million annual subsidy to keep the state's nuclear power plants afloat. Though many environmentalists have serious qualms about nuclear energy, retaining this capacity is smart from a climate perspective, as these plants provide roughly 40 percent of the state's electricity, all of it carbon-free. 
New Jersey's strategy is similar in some respects to programs approved recently in New York and Illinois, where renewables would be encouraged and nuclear plants awarded financial credit for the carbon-free electricity they produce. As Brad Plumer of The Times has observed, the future of nuclear power is something climate-conscious but traditionally nuclear-phobic environmental groups may have to rethink. There are 99 nuclear plants operating across the country, supplying one-fifth of the nation's electricity without any carbon dioxide emissions. Some of these plants are struggling financially. Six have closed since 2013, and a dozen or so more are scheduled to retire by 2025 unless states decide otherwise. 
But states and cities cannot go it alone. Take, for instance, the vexing matter of emissions from transportation, mainly cars and trucks, which in 2016 overtook power plants as America's largest source of greenhouse gases. New York has done a good job of cutting power plant emissions, and Gov. Andrew Cuomo promises even greater reductions by deploying offshore wind farms and a suite of energy efficiencies. But the road to his goal of reducing overall emissions by 40 percent by 2030 would be much easier if he got some help on vehicles. 
This is why it is important to preserve the ambitious fuel-efficiency standards agreed to by the Obama administration and the automakers in 2012, as well as California's statutory right to set even stronger standards. Both are threatened by the Environmental Protection Agency under Scott Pruitt, who, as it turns out, has plenty of time for regulatory carnage when he is not attending to his own legal defense against multiple charges of administrative abuse. 
On Thursday, Mr. Pruitt sent to the White House his proposal to roll back the Obama rules, which require automakers to nearly double the fuel economy of passenger vehicles by 2025. The proposal also formally challenges California's right to set its own standards. That right is critical because other states can emulate California if they wish; 12 states, including New York, plus the District of Columbia have chosen to do so. In January, Gov. Jerry Brown of California signed an executive order setting a goal of five million zero-emission vehicles on the state's roads by 2030, a huge increase from the 350,000 or so now. Should other states follow suit, it would mean an enormous shift in the car market -- and a significant reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. 
In an ideal world, Americans would have a federal government that, as it has in the past, provides investment in new technologies, in research and development and in energy infrastructure. Instead, we are saddled with an administration that is preparing to force power companies to keep dirty and inefficient coal-burning power plants operating on the pretext that they are needed to protect national security. Until that changes, the voices of all those governors, mayors, corporate leaders and others who, after Mr. Trump's withdrawal from the Paris agreement, proclaimed, "We Are Still In," deserve praise and support. 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 
Credit: THE EDITORIAL BOARD 

Photograph 
(PHOTOGRAPH BY GETTY IMAGES) DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATTHIEU BOUREL) Copyright New York Times Company Jun 2, 2018 
Subject  Editorials; Nuclear energy; Electricity; Greenhouse gases; Emissions; Carbon; Automobile safety; Energy efficiency; Environmental protection; Paris Agreement; Environmental policy; Climate change; Industrial plant emissions; Nuclear power plants; Natural gas  
Location  United States--US  
People  Trump, Donald J; Pruitt, Scott; Obama, Barack  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 924110  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/01/opinion/trump-paris-climate-withdrawal.html  
Title  The Silver Lining of Leaving Paris: [Editorial]  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.22  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Jun 2, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  2048354292  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2048354292?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Jun 2, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-13  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 124 of 236 


E.P.A. Takes a Major Step to Roll Back Car Emissions Rules: [National Desk] 
Davenport, Coral.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]01 June 2018: A.17. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=E.P.A.+Takes+a+Major+Step+to+Roll+Back+Car+Emissions+Rules%3A+%5BNa 06-01&volume=&issue=&spage=A.17&au=Davenport%2C+Coral&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- The Trump administration took a major step toward dramatically weakening an Obama-era rule designed to cut pollution from vehicle tailpipes, setting the stage for a legal clash with California that could potentially split the nation's auto market in two. 
The Environmental Protection Agency on Thursday submitted its proposal to roll back climate change rules that required automakers to nearly double the fuel economy of passenger vehicles to an average of more than 50 miles per gallon by 2025. The rules, which would have significantly lowered the nation's greenhouse gas emissions, were opposed by automakers who said they were overly burdensome. 
However, the proposed Trump rule could lead to unintended and unwanted consequences for those same car companies. The Obama-era regulations would have forced automakers to make and sell far more electric and hybrid vehicles, but the new proposal could end up leading to two separate sets of fuel economy regulations within the United States, creating what automakers say would be an even greater regulatory burden. 
Jahan Wilcox, a spokesman for the E.P.A., confirmed on Thursday that the agency had sent its proposed regulatory rollback to the White House Office of Management and Budget for review. Typically that is the final step before a proposed rule is published in the Federal Register. The rules are then open for public comment before taking effect, during which the terms could still be modified. 
While the administration had been expected to take the steps laid out on Thursday, the proposal is significant because it amounts to an official declaration of its intent. 
Together with President Trump's plans to undo a separate set of climate change regulations, on pollution from coal-fired power plants, "this represents the centerpiece of the administration's gutting of the Obama-era domestic climate portfolio," said Robert N. Stavins, a professor of environmental economics at Harvard University. 
Dr. Stavins said that while the rollback could give automakers the looser regulations they had sought, it could well backfire by creating two different sets of regulations where there had been one. The uncertainty, he said, " could haunt U.S. car producers at a time at which they are already worried about the effects on their production costs of Trump's steel and aluminum tariffs," Dr. Stavins wrote in an email. 
One of the central and most controversial elements of the proposed rule would formally challenge California's special status under the 1970 Clean Air Act to set its own vehicle pollution standards. California has said that it will continue to enforce the stricter, Obama-era pollution standards, a move that would create two separate auto markets in the United States -- one with the tougher emissions requirements, and another with looser rules. 
Twelve other states follow California's lead, and together they make up roughly one-third of the nation's auto market. 
California's lawmakers insist that, under the state's special status, they and the 12 other states have the right to retain their own tighter rules even if the federal government lowers its fuel economy standards. 
According to three people familiar with the proposal filed on Thursday, Mr. Trump's proposed rule would not revoke California's waiver outright. Instead, it will argue that California cannot use the waiver to require tougher fuel economy standards than those set by the federal government. The three requested anonymity because the E.P.A. had not authorized them to speak publicly on the matter. 
Gov. Jerry Brown of California and the state's attorney general, Xavier Becerra, have said that, should Mr. Trump challenge their state, they stand ready to fight back with a major lawsuit that would likely end up before the Supreme Court. 
"We've ridden this bull for almost 50 years and we're still on top," Mr. Becerra said in an emailed statement. "We don't intend 2018 to be any different because for California, taming greenhouse gas emissions isn't a choice, it's a necessity." 
Mr. Trump has vowed since the early days of his administration to roll back the vehicle pollution rule, which was one of President Barack Obama's signature policies to address climate change. In the first weeks after Mr. Trump took office, he met with the chief executives of the United States' major automakers, who asked him to lower the standards, saying that a million jobs were on the line. Mr. Trump then tasked Scott Pruitt, the head of the E.P.A., to craft a legal proposal to achieve that. 
On May 23, Mr. Trump tweeted, "There will be big news coming soon for our great American Autoworkers. After many decades of losing your jobs to other countries, you have waited long enough!" 
One person familiar with the plan, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the White House intended to publish its new rule in the next two weeks. Once the proposed rule is published, the E.P.A. will open it up for public comments before publishing a final regulation later in the year. 
The terms of the E.P.A.'s plan are similar to those in a draft that circulated last month, according to the three people familiar with the document. That draft laid out eight options for revising the Obama-era standards and identified a preferred option: freezing fuel economy standards at 2020 levels for both cars and light trucks. That approach would significantly increase the nation's projected emissions of planet-warming carbon dioxide pollution from vehicle tailpipes. 
For months, opponents of climate-change policy have pushed Mr. Trump to move forward with the legal challenge to California, arguing that the federal government should not allow states to set their own fuel economy standards. 
"We strongly support undoing state pre-emption of standards and taking California out of the driver's seat," said Myron Ebell, who led Mr. Trump's E.P.A. Trump transition team and works for the industry-funded Competitive Enterprise Institute, a conservative Washington organization. 
But while automakers had pressed Mr. Trump to relax the Obama-era standards, some now fear that the president's willingness to dramatically roll back the standards and to fight California in court could have unintended consequences that could end up harming, rather than helping, the industry. 
Should California fight Mr. Trump's plan in court and win, that could set the stage for a huge transformation of the nation's auto market, ultimately creating one set of rules for cars sold in California and the 12 states that follow its strict fuel economy standards, and another set of rules for the rest of the country. 
Automakers have long described that possibility as the worst-case outcome for them, forcing them to manufacture cars that meet two separate sets of standards. Opponents of the proposed Trump rule say they hope that possibility will persuade the administration to walk back the proposal before it is finalized. 
In recent weeks, automakers and officials from California have held numerous meetings with Trump administration officials, both in Sacramento and in Washington, in an effort to broker a deal on a new proposal that would avoid the legal clash and the prospect of a split into two markets. 
Automakers have also spoken publicly in support of sticking, in some form, to more stringent car standards. "We support increasing car standards through 2025, and are not asking for a rollback," wrote Bill Ford, executive chairman at Ford Motor, in a blog post this year. 
"It has been made very clear that excluding the state of California and freezing fuel economy standards for the better part of decade won't prove fruitful," said Senator Thomas Carper of Delaware, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Environment Committee. "President Trump should recognize the opportunity here and take yes for an answer, rather than try to push extreme and unwanted standards through." 
But people close to the Trump administration said that any future compromise was unlikely. "I can't envision a scenario where President Trump and Jerry Brown would reach agreement over greenhouse gas emissions," said Thomas J. Pyle, who advised Mr. Trump's campaign and transition on energy policy, and heads the Institute for Energy Research, a group which advocates fossil fuel use. 
Mr. Pyle said he was unworried that the ultimate outcome could be the imposition on American automakers of more regulations, not fewer. "If that's the outcome, the automakers will figure out something to make it work," he said. 
Credit: CORAL DAVENPORT; Hiroko Tabuchi contributed from New York 

Photograph 
Scott Pruitt, the Environmental Protection Agency administrator, second from left, with auto executives and President Trump. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN ERNST/REUTERS); 
From left, Attorney General Xavier Becerra of California, Gov. Jerry Brown and Mary Nichols, head of the state's clean air agency. California says it will keep enforcing a strict 
pollution standard. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICH PEDRONCELLI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 
Copyright New York Times Company Jun 1, 2018 

Subject 	Automobile industry; 

Emissions; 

Energy efficiency; 
Fuel economy standards; 
Climate change 


Location 	New York; United States--US; Sacramento California; California; Delaware 
People 	Trump, Donald J; Ebell, Myron; Becerra, Xavier; Pruitt, Scott; Obama, Barack 
Company / organization 	Name: Harvard University 

NAICS: 611310; 

Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA NAICS: 924110; 
Name: Senate 

NAICS: 921120; 

Name: Competitive Enterprise Institute NAICS: 813910; 
Name: Ford Motor Co NAICS: 333924, 336111, 336390 
URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/05/31/climate/epa-car-pollution-rollback.html 
Title 	E.P.A. Takes a Major Step to Roll Back Car Emissions Rules: [National Desk] 
Author  Davenport, Coral  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.17  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Jun 1, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2047681236  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2047681236?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Jun 1, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-13  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 125 of 236 


Coal Rebound Brings Big Banks Back: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Flitter, Emily.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]29 May 2018: B.1. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Coal+Rebound+Brings+Big+Banks+Back%3A+%5BBusiness%2FFinancial+Desk 05-29&volume=&issue=&spage=B.1&au=Flitter%2C+Emily&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 

None available. 

Full Text 
Starting three years ago, the largest American banks vowed to cut back on lending to the coal industry. 
"The bank has a responsibility to help mitigate climate change by leveraging our scale and resources to accelerate the transition from a high-carbon to a low-carbon society," Bank of America said in its coal policy in May 2015. 
Their pledges seemed so dramatic that Paul Argenti, a professor of corporate communication at Dartmouth's Tuck School of Business, began citing them in lectures as a rare example of a corporate principle's trumping profits. "I read it as: They were done," he said. 
But the banks, it turns out, never actually promised to walk away from coal completely. And now, with coal companies enjoying a small resurgence under the Trump administration, banks are again embracing the industry. 
At the time of the pledges, the three biggest coal mining companies were in bankruptcy, the United States was signing a pact to reduce carbon emissions, and cheap natural gas was forcing coal-fired power plants out of business. There were few coal loans to make. 
But Peabody Energy, Arch Coal and Alpha Natural Resources have emerged from bankruptcy, their balance sheets scrubbed clean. President Trump has vowed to support the industry. 
Five of the country's biggest banks are lending tens or hundreds of millions of dollars to coal companies again, in one case eclipsing what they lent in 2014, before the industry entered a nose dive, according to an analysis by Rainforest Action Network, a liberal environmental group. 
JPMorgan's coal lending increased to $654 million 2017 from $32 million in 2015, according to the analysis. That was more than the $570 million the bank lent to coal interests in 2014. The vast majority of JPMorgan's coal loans in 2017 were to Peabody, which emerged from bankruptcy that April. 
Morgan Stanley's coal loans, though well below their 2014 levels, more than doubled from 2015 to 2017. And though their loans to coal companies haven't quite reached earlier levels, Goldman Sachs and Bank of America each added new coal loans last year, the analysis shows. Citigroup made more such loans in 2016 and 2017 than it did in 2015, though well below its 2014 figure. 
Combined, the five banks issued about $1.5 billion in new coal-related loans last year, according to Rainforest Action Network. 
The analysis includes loans to companies like Glencore and BHP Billiton, which produce commodities like copper and oil in addition to coal. It weights each loan based on the percentage of the company's business that comes from coal. Fifteen percent of Glencore's assets are in coal, for example, so a $229 million loan that Bank of America made to Glencore last year was given a value of $34 million. 
The analysis looked only at new loans, not at the banks' overall exposure to the coal industry. 
The banks made their pledges around the time that world leaders negotiated the Paris agreement to reduce carbon emissions. Some of the banks vowed to curb lending to new coal-fired power plants in wealthy countries and to plants that did not use pollution-mitigating technology. 
In November 2015, for example, Morgan Stanley said it would reduce financing for projects using "mountaintop removal," in which mountains are dynamited to reveal coal seams. In March 2016, JPMorgan said it would eliminate such financing, as well as stop lending to new coal mines. 
The promises generated a flood of publicity. "Here's Another Big Sign the Coal Industry Is Burning Out," Fortune reported. "Wall Street checks out of coal mines," CNBC announced. The New York Times quoted a historian who suggested that John Pierpont Morgan himself might not have lent to coal companies in the current environment. 
Banks used the pledges as part of a broader effort to project a green corporate image. Citigroup listed its reduced lending as the first item in the environmental section of its 2016 report on its "citizenship" initiatives. Bank of America and JPMorgan were lead sponsors of Climate Week NYC 2016, a gathering of world leaders and corporate executives who discussed ways to fulfill the Paris accord's goals. 
Even experts got the impression that banks were abandoning coal. 
"A few years ago when a lot of these major banks came out and said that they would no longer be supporting the sector, I think, a lot of people generalized in a major way," said Chiza Vitta, an analyst at Standard & Poor's. "The sector is in decline, but it remains a very important component of electricity generation." 
The banks left themselves plenty of room to respond if the coal industry recovered. 
Few coal mining companies still use mountaintop removal. And it is far more common for companies to expand existing mines than to break ground for new ones. 
Environmental groups are crying foul. 
"It wasn't an environmental policy," said Alex Bozmoski, managing director of RepublicEn, a conservative environmental activism group. "It was financial and risk management policy that was used by communications departments." 
Alison Kirsch, a spokeswoman for Rainforest Action Network, said the banks' initial pledges had left "huge loopholes," which she said JPMorgan in particular was "shamelessly exploiting." 
"We disagree with the report's conclusions," said Brian Marchiony, a JPMorgan spokesman. "Over the last two years, we have declined to participate in dozens of transactions related to coal-fired power plants and coal mining, and our credit exposure to companies deriving the majority of their revenues from coal has declined by about a third." 
Kelly Sapp, a spokeswoman for Bank of America, said the company was adhering to its 2015 pledge. "We have been reducing our credit exposure over the past several years to companies focused on coal mining while growing our financing of renewables," she said. "Our policy is not changing." 
Representatives of Citigroup, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley declined to comment. 
Part of the reason that coal has been resurgent is that it is used to fuel blast furnaces in which steel is made. The Rainforest Action Network analysis doesn't differentiate between loans for so-called metallurgical coal and coal used in power plants. 
Randall Atkins, who briefly worked as a JPMorgan investment banker specializing in the coal industry and now runs Ramaco Resources, a small coal producer based in Kentucky, said the banks' rapprochement with coal companies was "Banking 101." Coal producers appear financially healthier now, he said, so banks think they can make money lending to them. 
"The banks are receptive to come back in and do normal lending in the space," he said. 
Not every coal company is having an easy time getting a loan. Grant Quasha, the chief executive of Paringa Resources, said his company had no loans from major United States banks. Some of their policies prohibit loans to projects like the new Poplar Grove mine, which Paringa is developing in Kentucky. 
"For smaller companies such as ourselves, it's still very difficult to obtain financing," Mr. Quasha said. "It exists, it's just very expensive." 
Mr. Argenti, the Dartmouth professor, said he would no longer cite the banks' coal pledges in his classroom lectures on corporate responsibility. 
"A lot of what passes for sustainability is actually nothing more than public relations," he said. 

Photograph 
Banks may have policies that prevent them from backing new mines, above, but they're still investing in coal. (B1); For small mining companies, like Paringa Resources, which is developing a new mine near Rumsey, Ky., bank financing can still be hard to find.; Workers pouring concrete, left, and a drill used to create ventilation shafts at the Poplar Grove coal mine, near Rumsey, Ky. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) Copyright New York Times Company May 29, 2018 
Subject 	Mines; 

Corporate image; 

Rainforests; 
Carbon; 
Banking industry; 
Coal industry; 

Bank loans; 
Coal mining; 

Coal-fired power plants; 
Bankruptcy; 

Industrial plant emissions; 

Executives 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Trump, Donald J 
Company / organization 	Name: Peabody Energy Corp 

NAICS: 212112; 

Name: Arch Coal Inc 

NAICS: 212111, 212112; 


Name: Bank of America Corp 

NAICS: 522110, 551111; 


Name: BHP Billiton 

NAICS: 211111, 212231, 212234; 


Name: Rainforest Action Network 

NAICS: 541820; 

Name:  Goldman Sachs Group Inc  
NAICS:  523110, 523120;  
Name:  Morgan Stanley  
NAICS:  523110, 523120, 523920;  
Name:  Citigroup Inc  
NAICS:  551111;  
Name:  Standard & Poors Corp  
NAICS:  511120, 523999, 541519, 561450;  
Name:  Alpha Natural Resources Inc  
NAICS:  212112  


URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/05/28/business/banks-coal-loans.html  
Title  Coal Rebound Brings Big Banks Back: [Business/Financial Desk]  
Author  Flitter, Emily  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.1  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  May 29, 2018  
Section  B  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2045922430  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2045922430?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company May 29, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-13  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 126 of 236 


World Tries To Stay Cool, But It Could Warm Earth: [Foreign Desk] 
Pierre-Louis, Kendra.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]18 May 2018: A.11. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=World+Tries+To+Stay+Cool%2C+But+It+Could+Warm+Earth%3A+%5BForeign 05-18&volume=&issue=&spage=A.11&au=Pierre-Louis%2C+Kendra&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
More than crickets and fireflies, more than baseball and cookouts, perhaps nothing signals the arrival of summer in the United States like the soft familiar whir of air-conditioning. 
But there is growing concern that as other countries adopt America's love of air-conditioners, the electricity used to power them will overburden electrical grids and increase planet-warming emissions. 
The number of air-conditioners worldwide is predicted to soar from 1.6 billion units today to 5.6 billion units by midcentury, according to a report issued Tuesday by the International Energy Agency. If left unchecked, by 2050 air-conditioners would use as much electricity as China does for all activities today. 
Greenhouse gas emissions released by coal and natural gas plants when generating electricity to power those air-conditioners would nearly double, from 1.25 billion tons in 2016 to 2.28 billion tons in 2050, the report says. Those emissions would contribute to global warming, which could further heighten the demand for air-conditioning. 
Right now air-conditioning is concentrated in a handful of countries, mainly in the United States and Japan, and increasingly in China. 
While 90 percent of American households have air-conditioning, "When we look in fact at the hot countries in the world, in Africa, Asia, Latin America and the Middle East, where about 2.8 billion people live, only about 8 percent of the population owns an air-conditioner," said Fatih Birol, executive director of the energy agency. 
As incomes in those countries rise, however, more people are installing air-conditioners in their homes. The energy agency predicts much of the growth in air-conditioning will occur in India, China and Indonesia. 
Some of the spread is simply being driven by a desire for comfort in parts of the world that have always been hot. But other factors are at play. 
For example, as household wealth increases, so does the presence of household appliances like refrigerators and televisions, the report notes. These appliances generate heat, making homes warmer. 
And because air-conditioners work in part by venting hot air outside, they also make the surrounding neighborhood warmer. By some estimates air-conditioning can raise overnight temperatures by about two degrees Fahrenheit (one degree Celsius) in some cities, the report said. Practically speaking, if enough of your neighbors buy an air-conditioner it may increase the temperature in your home enough to drive you to do the same. 
And then, of course, there's climate change. India is already one degree Fahrenheit warmer on average than it was a century ago. This has led to more "cooling degree days," or days when average temperatures are warm enough to necessitate air-conditioning. 
"If you look at cooling degree days for Chennai or Mumbai, these are places that have twice as many cooling degree days as the hottest city in the U.S., Miami," said Lucas Davis, director of the Energy Institute at the Haas School of Business of the University of California, Berkeley. "It's unbelievably hot -- there's nothing in the U.S. that compares in terms of heat to these cities in India." 
And when it gets hot, forgoing air-conditioning can be deadly. The heat wave that plagued Chicago in 1995 killed more than 700 people, while the 2003 European heat wave and 2010 Russian heat wave killed tens of thousands each. Researchers have found that climate change made the European heat wave deadlier and the Russian heat wave more likely. 
The introduction of home air-conditioning in the United States has cut premature deaths on hot days by 75 percent since 1960, another study has shown. That is why both Dr. Davis and Dr. Birol say the solution lies not in convincing countries to forgo air-conditioners, but in making air-conditioning more energy efficient. That could cut by half the additional energy demand for cooling in the coming years. 
Many air-conditioners on sale in India today use twice as much electricity to provide the same amount of cooling as more efficient units, Dr. Davis said. 
On the other end of the spectrum, air-conditioners sold in Japan and the European Union tend to be 25 percent more efficient than units sold in the United States and China. 
Governments should set efficiency standards for air-conditioners and provide incentives for manufacturers and consumers, Dr. Birol said. Some countries are already passing energy efficiency standards. And as part of an agreement known as the Kigali amendment to the Montreal Protocol, other countries are working to phase out refrigerants used in air-conditioning units that are also potent greenhouse gases. 
Dr. Davis said electricity prices must also play a role in developing countries. "It is hard to make more progress on any of those fronts without more rational pricing for electricity," he said. Accounting for emissions in the cost of electricity and removing subsidies would encourage more efficient air-conditioning and more sustainable buildings, he said. 
The report also envisions a role for renewable energies -- especially solar power, which to some degree aligns the peak of its energy generation, in the middle of the day, with the peak demand for cooling. 
No matter what, air-conditioning will be a major issue in the fight against climate change, Dr. Birol said. 
"When I look at the next few years to come, air-conditioners are only second to the entire industrial sector," he said. "Twenty-one percent of the total world electricity growth is coming from the need to meet the growth of air-conditioner electricity demand." 

Photograph 
Air-conditioners this year in a residential building in Shenzhen, China, which is adopting America's love of keeping cool. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VISUAL CHINA GROUP, VIA GETTY IMAGE) Copyright New York Times Company May 18, 2018 
Subject 	Cooling; 

Air conditioning; 
Emissions; 

Heat; 
Energy; 
Climate change 


Location 	Chicago Illinois; Middle East; Montreal Quebec Canada; United States--US; India; 

Latin America; Africa; China; California; Asia; Indonesia; Japan; Mumbai India 


People 	Birol, Fatih 
Company / organization 	Name: International Energy Agency 

NAICS: 541720, 926130, 928120; 


Name: European Union NAICS: 926110, 928120 
URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/05/15/climate/air-conditioning.html 
Title 	World Tries To Stay Cool, But It Could Warm Earth: [Foreign Desk] 
Author 	Pierre-Louis, Kendra 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.11 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	May 18, 2018 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	General Interest Periodicals--United States 
ISSN 	03624331 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2040528585  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2040528585?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company May 18, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-12  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 127 of 236 


Here to Help; Answering Your Burning Questions on Climate Change: [Science Desk] 
Hall, Eleanor.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]17 May 2018: A.3. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Here+to+Help%3B+Answering+Your+Burning+Questions+on+Climate+Change% 05-17&volume=&issue=&spage=A.3&au=Hall%2C+Eleanor&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
We read about pension funds, endowments, etc. divesting from fossil fuel stocks. To what extent are they taking the important next step, reinvesting in clean energy and energy efficiency stocks? 
ELEANOR HALL 
A. Some of the earliest student-led campus divestment campaigns focused on getting universities to drop fossil fuel stocks from their portfolios. Proponents saw the act as an ethical statement about investments in technologies that contribute to climate change, and as part of an effort to paint the fossil fuel companies as pariahs. But much of today's movement calls for both divestment and investment, as you can see in the name of the group DivestInvest.org. 
More than 850 organizations and nearly 60,000 individuals have aligned themselves with the movement's goals, and 170 foundations have pledged at least 5 percent of their portfolios to areas like renewable and clean technologies, energy efficiency and sustainable energy access for the developing world. Together, the organizations and individuals have assets under management totaling $6 trillion. 
That doesn't mean that it's easy to do, said Mindy S. Lubber, chief executive of Ceres, a nonprofit that encourages companies to invest with environmental and equitability issues in mind. Institutions don't have the freedom to tinker that individuals do: Pension funds and university endowments often invest in broad funds, so targeting individual stocks can be difficult, and the institutions also have legal obligations to maximize financial return. "They don't just categorically divest easily," Ms. Lubber said. 
Still, the market is driving investors toward renewable energy sources as fossil fuels like coal and tar sands decline in value. And companies are taking action to support environmental goals that go beyond investing for profit, as Apple and others have done by committing to using only renewables. 
The New York State comptroller announced this year that the state pension fund was doubling the size of its low-emissions investments to $4 billion. In other words, things are happening. As Ms. Lubber put it: "There is a lot going on -- it's good. But it's not nearly enough. We've got to keep pushing it." JOHN SCHWARTZ 
Do you have questions about climate change? We answer them in the Climate Fwd: newsletter. Sign up at nytimes.com/newsletters 

Photograph 
(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRANDEN CAMP/ASSOCIATED PRESS) Copyright New York Times Company May 17, 2018 
Subject 	Stocks; 
Energy efficiency; 
Pension funds; 

Alternative energy; 

Endowment; 
Fossil fuels; 
Climate change; 
Divestments 


Location 	New York 
Title 	Here to Help; Answering Your Burning Questions on Climate Change: [Science Desk] 
Author 	Hall, Eleanor 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.3 
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  May 17, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2039678565  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2039678565?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company May 17, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-12  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 128 of 236 


Deep-Red Alaska, Feeling Thaw, Devises Climate Change Plan: [National Desk] 
Plumer, Brad.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]16 May 2018: A.18. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88-2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Deep­Red+Alaska%2C+Feeling+Thaw%2C+Devises+Climate+Change+Plan%3A+%5BNational+Desk%5D&title=New+York+Times&issn=03624331&date=2018-05­16&volume=&issue=&spage=A.18&au=Plumer%2C+Brad&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- In the Trump era, it has mainly been blue states that have taken the lead on climate change policy, with liberal strongholds like California and New York setting ambitious goals for cutting greenhouse gas emissions. 
Now, at least one deep-red state could soon join them: Alaska, a major oil and gas producer, is crafting its own plan to address climate change. Ideas under discussion include cuts in state emissions by 2025 and a tax on companies that emit carbon dioxide. 
While many conservative-leaning states have resisted aggressive climate policies, Alaska is already seeing the dramatic effects of global warming firsthand, making the issue difficult for local politicians to avoid. The solid permafrost that sits beneath many roads, buildings and pipelines is starting to thaw, destabilizing the infrastructure above. At least 31 coastal towns and cities may need to relocate, at a cost of hundreds of millions of dollars, as protective sea ice vanishes and fierce waves erode Alaska's shores. 
"The change has been so real and so widespread that it's become impossible to ignore," Byron Mallott, the state's Democratic lieutenant governor, said Tuesday while visiting Washington to discuss climate policy. "Folks are realizing that it's something we have to deal with." 
The state is still finalizing its climate strategy. In October, Gov. Bill Walker, a former Republican who won election as an independent in 2014, created a task force headed by Lieutenant Governor Mallott that would propose specific policies to reduce emissions and help the state adapt to the impacts of global warming. The recommendations are due by September. 
In addressing climate change, Alaska will have to grapple with its own deep contradictions. Roughly 85 percent of the state's budget is funded by revenues from the production of oil, which is primarily exported to the rest of the United States, and local politicians have largely been unwilling to curtail the supply of fossil fuels. Both Governor Walker and Lieutenant Governor Mallott supported the recent decision by Congress to open the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil and gas exploration, a move opposed by environmentalists. 
"The state will continue to be an energy producer for as long as there is a market for fossil fuels," the men wrote in a recent op-ed for the Juneau Empire. But, they added, "We should not use our role as an energy producer to justify inaction or complacency in our response to the complex challenge of climate change." 
To that end, the state's climate task force released a draft in April that included a proposal for Alaska to get 50 percent of its electricity from renewable sources like solar, wind, hydropower and geothermal by 2025, up from 33 percent in 2016. The draft also proposed cutting statewide greenhouse gas emissions one-third below 2005 levels by 2025, tackling sectors like transportation and "natural resource development," which includes oil drilling operations. 
Alaska, which ranks as the nation's 40th-largest emitter overall but is fourth-largest on a per-capita basis, has already cut its emissions by 25 percent since 2005, driven by a drop in emissions from both aviation and industry. The state's main climate impact, however, is through the oil that it exports to the rest of the country, where it is burned in cars and trucks. 
The task force trod lightly around Alaska's heavy reliance on oil and gas exports. An earlier draft had included a line that said, "There is an economic and ethical imperative to pursue a transition away from a global dependence on fossil fuels." That language was dropped in the latest version, which instead suggests that Alaska develop an "energy transition" strategy, balancing economic concerns with climate change considerations. 
"We need to have a revenue stream from nonrenewable energy that will allow us to invest in renewables," Lieutenant Governor Mallott said. 
As one possible approach, the draft proposal says that the state could consider a "carbon fee and dividend program" that would tax carbon dioxide emitters and then reinvest the revenues in local energy efficiency and clean energy programs. The lieutenant governor also suggested that Alaska's natural gas could be used to help reduce emissions in coal-reliant countries like China. (While natural gas is about half as carbon-intensive as coal, it produces more emissions than renewables or nuclear power.) 
The task force will solicit public comment on the proposals before delivering final recommendations to Governor Walker, who faces a tough battle for re-election in November. 
Any carbon tax proposal within the state could face pushback from Alaska's oil and gas industry. "I think they need to be focusing on things that will actually have an impact," said Kara Moriarty, president and chief executive of the Alaska Oil and Gas Association. "Climate change is a global problem, so unless you're talking about a global carbon tax, I'm not sure this would move the needle in a state with only 750,000 people." 
There is broader consensus that the state will need to take more immediate action to prepare for the impacts of higher temperatures. The Arctic is already warming faster than the rest of the planet. Wildfires are growing larger during the Alaskan summer, menacing homes and roads. Native communities that rely on walrus hunting are seeing catches decline as sea ice disappears. And, in May, the rural village of Newtok received a $22 million federal grant to help relocate residents threatened by erosion and flooding. 
The state's draft proposal urges more scientific research on threats like ocean acidification, which could threaten state fisheries, as well as new strategies to ensure food security in indigenous communities. By taking the lead on such efforts, the draft notes, Alaska could potentially export its adaptation know-how to the rest of the world. 
"Many climate impacts are unfolding more quickly and sooner here," said Nancy Fresco, a scientist studying climate adaptation at the University of Alaska in Fairbanks. "But that could mean that the rest of country might be able to learn from our successes and failures." 
Follow @NYTClimate on Twitter 

Photograph 
Shaktoolik is one of the communities in Alaska that may need to be evacuated because protective sea ice is vanishing, leaving shorelines exposed to erosion by waves. 
(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES); An Operation IceBridge image, NASA's longest-running airborne mission to monitor polar ice. (PHOTOGRAPH BY 
NASA/EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK) 
Copyright New York Times Company May 16, 2018 

Subject 	Task forces; 
Emissions; 

Environmental tax; 

Adaptation; 
Energy; 
Environmental policy; 
Greenhouse effect; 
Climate change; 
Natural gas; 
Greenhouse gases; 
Fossil fuels; 
Carbon; 
State elections; 
Governors 


Location 	Arctic region; Alaska; New York; United States--US; China; California 
People 	Mallott, Byron; Walker, Bill 
Company / organization 	Name: New York Times Co 

NAICS: 511110, 511120, 515112, 515120; 


Name: Congress 

NAICS: 921120; 

Name: Twitter Inc NAICS: 519130; 
Name: University of Alaska NAICS: 611310; 
Name: Arctic National Wildlife Refuge NAICS: 712190, 924120 
URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/05/15/climate/alaska-climate-change.html 
Title 	Deep-Red Alaska, Feeling Thaw, Devises Climate Change Plan: [National Desk] 
Author 	Plumer, Brad 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.18 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	May 16, 2018 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2039084437  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2039084437?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company May 16, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-12  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 129 of 236 


Do Pipelines Really Create Lots of Jobs?: [Op-Ed] 
Leslie, Jacques.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]13 May 2018: SR.9. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Do+Pipelines+Really+Create+Lots+of+Jobs%3F%3A+%5BOp­Ed%5D&title=New+York+Times&issn=03624331&date=2018-05­13&volume=&issue=&spage=SR.9&au=Leslie%2C+Jacques&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Here's a curious ritual of American politics: Whenever a large energy project is proposed, the ensuing debate revolves chiefly around how many jobs it will create. 
For example, backers of the proposed Atlantic Coast Pipeline, a contested 600-mile natural gas conduit that would run from West Virginia to North Carolina, have maintained that it would create nearly 20,000 construction and manufacturing jobs. 
Similarly, President Trump's announcement last year that he was reviving the Keystone XL pipeline suggested that it would generate 28,000 construction jobs. On the other hand, The Washington Post concluded that the real number was 3,900 construction jobs, based on a State Department estimate. 
Renewable energy advocates play the same game. An Environmental Defense Fund report published last year asserted that the United States' clean energy sector employs an estimated four million to 4.5 million people. The solar and wind industries "are each creating jobs at a rate 12 times faster than that of the rest of the U.S. economy," the report said. 
The problem with statistics like these isn't just their purveyor's bias: It's that all the numbers are inherently misleading. Regardless of political outlook, economists generally agree that job numbers don't convey the value of a given project or sector. Severin Borenstein, a University of California, Berkeley, economist, could have been speaking for all of them in his 2015 blog post called "The Job Creation Shuffle." 
"Most of the people who take a newly 'created' job are leaving an existing job. Or would have found another job," Mr. Borenstein wrote. "Then there are people who are displaced by the new jobs created -- the coal miners who worked for the mine that is shut down" or "the fracking oil drillers in North Dakota laid off when cheaper crude from the tar sands is carried to market by the Keystone XL." 
The "fundamental fallacy" of counting jobs, Mr. Borenstein continued, is that all sorts of things, from government policies to variations in energy prices and taxes, affect employment. As a result, "reports of 'green job creation' or the 'jobs that will be created by Keystone' are just data cherry picking, not real analysis," he wrote. 
A deep recession justifies the sole exception to this rule: In 2008, joblessness was rampant and stimulus projects clearly led to increased employment. But at other times, Mr. Borenstein told me, the idea that projects "take people who have no job and now they have one is completely misleading." 
The right way to assess the worthiness of energy projects has nothing to do with counting jobs, Mr. Borenstein added. It involves doing cost-benefit analyses that include both the projects' direct costs -- the sort of thing that investors base decisions on -- and their "externalities," the costs and benefits to society such as air or water pollution or useful knowledge uncovered by research and development. 
When fossil fuels are involved, a sophisticated cost-benefit analysis requires an additional calculation using what has become known as "the social cost of carbon"-- an estimated number in dollars per ton of carbon dioxide that reflects the climate change consequences of a project's emissions. This is an imprecise number, intended to take into account a deluge of woes, an array of constantly changing and sometimes unpredictable climate phenomena including rising temperatures and sea levels, intense droughts and floods, and hampered agricultural production. But the number, pegged by the Obama administration at $45 per ton in 2020, is a better approximation of climate change's impact than zero, the default number if the calculation isn't attempted. 
Multiply $45 by the number of tons of a project's expected carbon dioxide emissions and the result is its climate change cost, which should be included in its cost-benefit analysis. If that calculation were performed for all energy projects now, most existing coal-fired power would be considered uneconomical, while gas-fired power plants wouldn't be significantly affected. Renewables would benefit. 
On an individual level, the impact of the social cost of carbon might be modest: For instance, the average American car emits a ton of carbon dioxide every two to two and a half months, hiking the annual expense of driving a car by roughly $250. 
But on a national scale, the quantities are enormous. Consider that in 2016 the United States emitted five billion tons of carbon dioxide, nearly a seventh of the global total of 36 billion tons. Adding the social cost of carbon to domestic fossil fuels' other expenses would have driven up their cost by about $200 billion, enough to help hasten the economy's conversion to renewable energy and reduce the depredations of climate change. 
The idea of the social cost of carbon was discussed in scholarly literature for decades, but it didn't become consequential until 2007, when the San Francisco-based Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration had to take climate change impacts into account in devising automobile fuel-efficiency standards. From that point on, federal agencies have devised their own social-cost-of-carbon numbers to apply to regulatory decisions. 
In 2009, the Obama administration drew representatives from a dozen government agencies and offices to create a working group that calculated a set of estimates for all agencies to use -- eliminating the duplication and confusion arising from allowing the agencies to perform their own, inevitably conflicting calculations. The group's estimates have been applied to scores of federal regulations since then, as well as the Obama administration's now-stalled Clean Power Plan. They are also being used by Canada and several state public utilities commissions, including New York's. Many corporations -- oil companies like Exxon Mobil, the onetime climate change denier, among them -- use some version of the social cost of carbon to plan investment. 
The Trump administration would probably have liked to disregard the social cost of carbon entirely, but it is already too firmly entrenched in law and regulation for that. Instead, two months after taking office, Mr. Trump issued an executive order that disbanded the working group and returned the job of calculating the social cost of carbon to individual agencies. Then, last October, the Environmental Protection Agency unveiled a drastically lowered social cost of carbon, ranging from $1 to $6 in 2020. Other agencies are likely to use similar numbers. 
The administration argued, among other things, that the previous calculation erred by including the international impacts of climate change instead of just the national ones. But as Richard Newell, president of an environmental economics think tank called Resources for the Future, pointed out to me, carbon dioxide is a global pollutant that has impacts everywhere, regardless of where it's emitted. And even if many of the impacts -- for example, increased migration or economic or political upheaval -- occur in other countries, they can affect the United States in unpleasant ways. Perhaps more important, the United States' willingness to curb its emissions would encourage other nations to limit theirs, a necessary step toward reducing climate impacts here. 
If reinforced by rollbacks planned by the E.P.A. in car fuel economy standards and other regulations, the administration's distortion will have far-reaching consequences. Vehicles will burn more fuel, and appliances will be less energy-efficient. Proposed renewable energy plants will be disadvantaged compared with fossil-fuel plants (which will generate fewer jobs than predicted). Most ominously, climate change will worsen. 
The Trump administration's daily-soap-opera gyrations attract more attention, but its attempt to ignore global warming is more sinister. One way that business leaders, environmentalists and elected officials at all levels can fight back is to insist on considering the social cost of carbon in every energy decision. Honest accounting, it turns out, is a pillar of a clearsighted society. 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 

AuthorAffiliation 
Jacques Leslie (@jacqules) is a Los Angeles Times contributing opinion writer and the author of "Deep Water: The Epic Struggle Over Dams, Displaced People, and the Environment." 
Illustration 
DRAWING (DRAWING BY ARIEL DAVIS) 
Copyright New York Times Company May 13, 2018 
Subject 	Agricultural production; 

Displaced persons; 
Emissions; 

Working groups; 

Energy industry; 

Benefit cost analysis; 

Social costs; 

Climate change; 
Employment; 

Industrial plant emissions; 

Natural gas industry; 

Job creation; 
Carbon dioxide; 
Economic impact; 
Energy efficiency; 
Coal-fired power plants; 
Environmental protection; 
Renewable resources; 
Federal court decisions; 
Pipelines 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Trump, Donald J 
Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 

NAICS: 924110; 

Name: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration--NHTSA NAICS: 926120; 
Name: Environmental Defense Fund NAICS: 541720, 813312; 
Name: Exxon Mobil Corp NAICS: 211111, 447110 
URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/05/10/opinion/environment-pipelines-jobs-carbon.html 
Title  Do Pipelines Really Create Lots of Jobs?: [Op-Ed]  
Author  Leslie, Jacques  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  SR.9  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  May 13, 2018  
Section  SR  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  2037916267  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2037916267?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company May 13, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-12  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 130 of 236 


Here to Help; Answering Your Burning Questions on Climate Change: [Science Desk] 
Pierre-Louis, Kendra; Plumer, Brad; Schwartz, John.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]11 May 2018: A.3. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Here+to+Help%3B+Answering+Your+Burning+Questions+on+Climate+Change% 05-11&volume=&issue=&spage=A.3&au=Pierre­Louis%2C+Kendra%3BPlumer%2C+Brad%3BSchwartz%2C+John&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Welcome to the Climate Fwd: newsletter. The New York Times climate team emails readers once a week with stories and insights about climate change. Sign up here to get it in your inbox. 
This week, we're answering some of your questions, about the color of your rooftops and how the global temperature is measured. Also, a reader offers an even cleaner electric car solution. 
Should we paint our roofs white? 
By Brad Plumer 
We love answering your questions about climate change. Send us yours via the form at the bottom of our climate Q. and A. Bob Frazier asked us about reflective roofs: 
Why are most roofs dark in color? It would seem that because we build so many of them that it would be prudent to make them reflective. 
The short answer is: Yes, making our roofs lighter and more reflective could help cool our cities and partly offset the worst effects of global warming. 
But, as with all things, the details can get tricky. 
Scientists have long known that cities tend to be hotter than rural areas, partly because concrete buildings and asphalt roads absorb heat and partly because of waste heat from 

cars and air-conditioners. This "urban heat island" effect can raise local temperatures by two to five degrees Fahrenheit on average. 
One 2014 study, led by Matei Georgescu of Arizona State University, tried to model what would happen if American cities replaced their dark asphalt roofs with reflective 

materials that bounced more sunlight back into space instead of absorbing it. Such "cool roofs" could cut temperatures by roughly 2.6 degrees Fahrenheit in California's cities 
and by 3.2 degrees in cities like Washington or New York. That effect held regardless of global warming from greenhouse-gas emissions. 
Studies like that have persuaded some cities to get cracking with the white paint. Through its CoolRoofs Initiative, New York City has already coated more than 5 million square 

feet of its roofs with a light, reflective coating, though that's still just a tiny fraction of the city's total rooftop space. Los Angeles is going even further and replacing some of its 

dark asphalt roads with lighter materials. 
Still, experts caution that more research is needed to figure out just how sensible this idea really is. There's cost to consider: Are reflective roofs a more effective way to cool a 
city than, say, planting lots of trees? And what about the greenhouse gas emissions from replacing all that pavement? 

Dr. Georgescu's team also found some important nuances that cities should heed. In Florida, for instance, their models found that reflective roofs had a much smaller cooling effect (about 0.7 degrees) because they caused a slight reduction in local rainfall. What's more, while cool roofs can lead to a reduction in energy use in the summertime (less need for air-conditioning), they might spur more energy use in the winter in certain cities where the roofs aren't covered by snow (more need for heating). 
"Every city is different, and there's still more work to do to understand the different trade-offs," Dr. Georgescu said. 
Other scientists are looking beyond cities. 
One recent review in Nature Geosciences examined strategies to make farmland slightly more reflective, say, by leaving crop residue on the fields after harvests or by using 

slightly lighter varieties of wheat. Because farmland covers a much wider area than roofs do, even small tweaks could potentially knock down regional temperatures by a degree 

or two, though it's too early to say what's feasible. 
None of the scientists I spoke with thought that reflective surfaces could be a substitute for cutting greenhouse gas emissions. At best, they might partly offset some of the 
effects of global warming locally. But severe heat waves have already killed more than 128,000 people worldwide since 2000. And with global temperatures still on the rise, 
every little bit helps. 

How scientists take Earth's temperature By Kendra Pierre-Louis 
How do we know Earth has a fever? After all, we can't stick a thermometer under its tongue. 
And yet, each year the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and NASA take the Earth's temperature. They do so by stitching together temperature data from sea surface thermometers, automatic weather stations located in places like airports, and, of course, the COOP. 
Formally known as the National Weather Service's Cooperative Observer Program, the COOP enlists volunteers to track weather data using government-supplied equipment. Congress created the program in 1891 because officials knew the data was vital to developing a weather forecasting system. 
"The original weather forecast failed because they didn't have the right data," said Inez Fung, an atmospheric scientist at the University of California, Berkeley. That was because the project didn't have the resources to set up weather stations nationwide. 
Today, though, more than 11,000 COOP stations track data, with observations emerging from places like the Chicken COOP, named for its location in the central Alaskan mining town of Chicken. 
Even in this era of automation, manual labor still has its benefits. 
"Generally, having a person manually measure snow is often more reliable than an automated instrument," said Edward Plumb, a meteorologist at the National Weather Service. 
In addition to the data we generate domestically, NOAA and NASA also use global temperature data. Countries submit data collected according to techniques established by the World Meteorological Organization. That, said Jake Crouch, a NOAA climate scientist, is so "we can be sure that somebody who is taking the observation, say, in Turkey, is using a similar methodology that somebody is using in Canada." 
Side note: There are other ways to capture temperature data, including weather balloons and airplanes. As early as 1919, the Weather Bureau paid pilots to strap devices that recorded temperature, humidity and atmospheric pressure to their planes. And, in an era before pressurization and oxygenation, pilots sometimes blacked out and died gathering the data. Today, aircraft still make daily weather observations to help improve weather models. But for a variety of reasons, they're not used to calculate global temperatures. 
Researchers use data from the COOP, weather stations and ocean observations to calculate anomalies, or how much temperatures deviate from the historical average. That's why the global temperature report is generally not phrased: "The Earth is 90 degrees." It's more like: "The Earth was one degree warmer than the average." 
NASA and NOAA often arrive at slightly different results, as they did this year. NOAA said 2017 was the third-hottest year on record; NASA said it was the second. 
That's partly because they use different math to stitch that temperature data together, and also because NASA uses satellite data to capture temperatures at the polar regions -­where there aren't many thermometers -- while NOAA doesn't. But both agencies, along with organizations like the British Met Office that also calculate global temperature, show that the Earth's temperature is trending in one direction: up. 
How to make cars really, really clean 
By John Schwartz 
Last week, I answered a reader's question about whether electric cars actually reduce greenhouse gas emissions if they are getting their electric charge from coal-burning power 

plants. (Short answer: yes, but it's complicated.) Another reader, Charley Cross, wrote to say there's a way to make electric cars even cleaner -- you can read about his idea 
below. But as he points out, photovoltaic (PV) systems are out of reach for many of us, at least for now. 
Hi! 
Regarding "Electric cars and pollution": 

The regional variation in the relative cleanness of electric and gasoline cars is very interesting. 
One thing the piece didn't mention is an option for some owners to take control of the electricity being used to charge their cars. For example, in anticipation of acquiring an 
electric car soon, my wife and I installed a solar PV system on our house this year. It is large enough to supply all our household electricity plus charging the new car. 

So a gas car would have to get infinity miles per gallon to beat that! :) 
Obviously, that's not an answer for everyone. PV is expensive and simply not practical in some situations. 
Thanks! 
Charley Cross, Sacramento 

We'd love your feedback on this newsletter. Please email thoughts and suggestions to climateteam@nytimes.com . 
If you like what we're doing, please spread the word and send this to your friends. You can sign up here to get our newsletter delivered to your inbox each week. 
And be sure to check out our full assortment of free newsletters from The Times. 
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 

Photograph 
DRAWING (DRAWING BY CLAIRE O'NEILL/THE NEW YORK TIMES) Copyright New York Times Company May 11, 2018 
Subject Emissions; Electric vehicles; 
Greenhouse effect; Climate change  
Location  Turkey; New York; Canada; Sacramento California; Arizona; California; Florida; Los Angeles California  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  New York Times Co 511110, 511120, 515112, 515120;  
Name: NAICS:  Congress 921120;  
Name: NAICS:  Arizona State University 611310;  
Name: NAICS:  National Aeronautics & Space Administration--NASA 927110;  
Name: NAICS:  National Weather Service-US 924120;  
Name: NAICS:  National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration--NOAA 924120;  
Name: NAICS:  World Meteorological Organization 924120  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/05/09/climate/white-roofs.html  
Title  Here to Help; Answering Your Burning Questions on Climate Change: [Science Desk]  
Author  Pierre-Louis, Kendra; Plumer, Brad; Schwartz, John  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.3  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  May 11, 2018  
column  Climate Fwd:  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2036953603  

Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2036953603?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company May 11, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-12  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 131 of 236 



Ex-Coal Baron Jailed Over Mine Blast Loses West Virginia Primary: [National Desk] 
Trip Gabriel.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]09 May 2018: A.19. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88-2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Ex­Coal+Baron+Jailed+Over+Mine+Blast+Loses+West+Virginia+Primary%3A+%5BNational+Desk%5D&title=New+York+Times&issn=03624331&date=2018-05­09&volume=&issue=&spage=A.19&au=Trip+Gabriel&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
CHARLESTON, W.Va. -- Don Blankenship, a former coal baron who went to prison for his role in a deadly mine disaster, was soundly defeated in the West Virginia Republican Senate primary on Tuesday, according to The Associated Press, after President Trump and other Republicans urged voters to reject him. 
The state's attorney general, Patrick Morrisey, captured the party's nomination and is expected to mount an aggressive challenge this fall against Senator Joe Manchin III, a Democrat who is a top target of Republicans in their struggle to hang on to their one-seat Senate majority in the midterm elections in November. 
Mr. Blankenship, who called himself "Trumpier Than Trump," drew on elements of the president's own populist playbook, including nativist attacks and charges of conspiracy leveled at the Obama-era Justice Department that prosecuted him for his role in the 2010 mine explosion, which killed 29 men. 
But Washington Republican leaders badly wanted Mr. Blankenship to lose, with the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, coordinating an effort to derail him. At Mr. McConnell's urging, Mr. Trump on Monday warned "the great people of West Virginia" in a tweet that Mr. Blankenship could not win the general election against Senator Manchin. 
Mr. Blankenship said Tuesday night that he thought the tweet cost him 10 percentage points or more. He ended up receiving 20 percent of the vote, compared to almost 35 percent for Mr. Morrisey. 
Mr. Blankenship ran a nonpolitician's race from start to finish. His TV ads were on the air months before those of other candidates, and rather than emphasizing his conservative bona fides -- the chief driver of voters in a Republican primary -- he spent deeply from his fortune to attack the Justice Department for his conviction. 
Unpredictable to the end, Mr. Blankenship went shopping for a new suit in Charleston on Tuesday rather than campaigning. Hours later, at his election-night event at a modest-size corporate ballroom in a Marriott hotel, he took the stage after only about 35 percent of votes were in to deliver a sort-of concession speech in a matter-of-fact tone. There were more journalists than supporters in the room, including two Mandarin speakers from the Voice of America, who said they were broadcasting into China because of interest there over racially offensive comments by Mr. Blankenship. 
"The news so far is not very good," he told the audience. "We're really disappointed by some of the votes in the northern panhandle," he continued. "At this point it's not nearly what I hoped it would be." 
Then Mr. Blankenship asked whether anyone had questions, and fielded them from both supporters and reporters. He said he may not endorse Mr. Morrisey, repeating campaign attacks that the attorney general is not strongly enough opposed to abortion or opioids. And he was inconclusive about whether he would mount a third-party bid, as he had earlier floated. 
By 9:30 p.m., the hotel caterers cleared away the last of the West Virginia apple butter glazed chicken sate and shrimp skewers. 
Many in West Virginia speculated that Mr. Blankenship, 68, was running primarily to seek personal redemption, or was waging a vendetta against Mr. Manchin. (The retired coal executive denied those were his motives.) 
In any case, Mr. Blankenship dug deeply into his personal fortune for some $2 million on TV and digital ads, far more than his rivals, which early on touched a nerve with the state's anti-establishment voters, including in the southern coal fields. Some miners and miners' families echoed Mr. Blankenship's charges that he had been railroaded. 
In the final stretch, Mr. Blankenship turned his fire on Senator McConnell, the Kentucky Republican, calling him "Cocaine Mitch" for an obscure claim that a ship connected to Mr. McConnell's father-in-law was found with smuggled drugs. In an ad released last week, he claimed "Swamp Captain Mitch McConnell has given millions of jobs to China People," an allusion to the shipping business run by the father of Mr. McConnell's wife, Elaine Chao, Mr. Trump's secretary of transportation. 
Mr. Blankenship's animus toward Mr. McConnell flared after a "super PAC" with ties to the majority leader ran ads in West Virginia calling the former coal executive unelectable and "a convicted criminal." 
Mr. McConnell's allies delighted in the rebuke Tuesday night. "It turns out that Blankenship's racist dog whistle played a lot louder with Washington reporters than with West Virginia primary voters," said Steven Law, who runs the Senate Leadership Fund, a McConnell-aligned super PAC. 
Mr. Trump's warning to West Virginia Republicans and independents to ignore Mr. Blankenship because he would be a weak candidate in November seemed to give little pause to those who voted for him. 
"I don't think it's true," said Chris Wilder, 32, who provides services to coal mines in Madison, W.Va. "It kind of threw it for a loop there," he acknowledged with a chuckle. 
National Republicans believed that Mr. Blankenship would have cost them a winnable Senate seat just as in Alabama last year, when primary voters chose Roy S. Moore, who was accused by several women of making sexual advances toward them as teenagers. In a deeply red state, Mr. Moore lost the general election to Doug Jones, a Democrat. 
After more than $1 million in TV attack ads by the McConnell-aligned super PAC last month, polls showed Mr. Blankenship slipping behind two conventional rivals, Mr. Morrisey and Mr. Jenkins. But he surged after a Fox News debate on May 1 -- indicative of national interest in the race -- in which Mr. Jenkins and Mr. Morrisey mainly attacked each other. 
Over the weekend, Mr. Morrisey finally leveled his sights on Mr. Blankenship, calling him a convicted criminal and on Monday sending a letter to his Nevada probation officer, accusing Mr. Blankenship of breaking the law by not filing a financial disclosure. 
Mr. Blankenship, raised in poverty in Mingo County, W.Va., now lives principally outside Las Vegas, in a $2.4 million villa, where he is under supervised release from his prison sentence. He failed to file a personal financial disclosure with the Senate Select Committee on Ethics, as required. Mr. Blankenship told The New York Times last month that he felt no pressure to file the disclosure because there isn't "much of a penalty." 
Mr. Morrisey is a conservative battler who sued the Obama administration repeatedly over environmental regulation. But he will also surely face sharp Democratic attacks: He is a transplant from New Jersey who once worked as a Washington lobbyist for the pharmaceutical industry, running in a state ravaged by the opioid epidemic. 
Mr. Manchin, 70, who is one of the most conservative Democrats in the Senate, has managed to retain popularity at home as Democrats elected statewide in West Virginia have become all but extinct. He won his most recent election, in 2012, in a near landslide with 60 percent of the vote even as the Republican presidential nominee, Mitt Romney, carried every county. 
In Congress, Mr. Manchin opposed President Barack Obama's climate change proposals and worked with Republicans on abortion and gun ownership. But he has refused repeated efforts to get him to switch parties, saying that when he grew up, Republicans were the party of the rich, and he did not know any rich people. 

Photograph 
Don Blankenship spent millions from his own fortune on his Senate campaign, but came up short at the polls. The state's attorney general, Patrick Morrisey, clinched the Republican nomination. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIAN TYLER RANDOLPH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) Copyright New York Times Company May 9, 2018 
Subject 	Nominations; 
Convictions; 
Disclosure; 
Candidates; 
Local elections; 
Criminal sentences; 
Negative campaigning; 
Abortion; 
Leadership; 

Coal 


Location 	New Jersey; Alabama; Nevada; Las Vegas Nevada; West Virginia; New York; China; Kentucky 
People 	Romney, W Mitt; Trump, Donald J; Manchin, Joe; McConnell, Mitch; Chao, Elaine; 

Obama, Barack 


Company / organization 	Name: Fox News Channel 

NAICS: 515120; 

Name: Voice of America 

NAICS: 515112; 

Name: New York Times Co 

NAICS: 511110, 511120, 515112, 515120; 


Name: Senate-Ethics, Select Committee on 

NAICS: 921120; 

Name: Congress 

NAICS: 921120; 

Name: Senate 

NAICS: 921120 


URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/05/08/us/politics/blankenship-west-virginia.html  
Title  Ex-Coal Baron Jailed Over Mine Blast Loses West Virginia Primary: [National Desk]  
Author  Trip Gabriel  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  

Pages  A.19  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  May 9, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2036010746  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2036010746?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company May 9, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-12  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 132 of 236 


Lavish Security To Shield Pruitt From Questions: [National Desk] 
Lipton, Eric; Friedman, Lisa.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]08 May 2018: A.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Lavish+Security+To+Shield+Pruitt+From+Questions%3A+%5BNational+Desk% 05-08&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Lipton%2C+Eric%3BFriedman%2C+Lisa&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- It was supposed to be a town hall meeting where Iowa ranchers could ask questions directly of Scott Pruitt, the head of the Environmental Protection Agency. But when the agency learned that anyone would be free to ask anything, they decided to script the questions themselves. 
"My sincere apologies," an E.P.A. official wrote to the rancher who would be moderating the event. "We cannot do open q&a from the crowd." She then proposed several simple questions for him to ask Mr. Pruitt, including: "What has it been like to work with President Trump?" 
Details about the December event, and dozens of other official appearances from Mr. Pruitt's scandal-plagued first year at the E.P.A., have until now been hidden from public view as a result of an extraordinary effort by Mr. Pruitt and his staff to maintain strict secrecy about the bulk of his daily schedule. 
But a new cache of emails offer a detailed look inside the agency's aggressive efforts to conceal his activities as a public servant. The more than 10,000 documents, made public as part of a Freedom of Information lawsuit by the Sierra Club, show that the agency's close control of Mr. Pruitt's events is driven more by a desire to avoid tough questions from the public than by concerns about security, contradicting Mr. Pruitt's longstanding defense of his secretiveness. 
Time and again, the files show, decisions turn on limiting advance public knowledge of Mr. Pruitt's appearances in order to control the message. The emails, many of which are communications with Mr. Pruitt's schedulers, show an agency that divides people into "friendly and "unfriendly" camps and that, on one occasion -- involving a secret visit to a Toyota plant last year -- became so focused on not disclosing information that Mr. Pruitt's corporate hosts expressed confusion about the trip. 
[How Pruitt's Aides Work to Shield the Boss: Seven Quotes] 
"The security aspect is smoke and mirrors," said Kevin Chmielewski, Mr. Pruitt's former deputy chief of staff for operations, who is one of several former E.P.A. officials who have said that they were fired or sidelined for disagreeing with Mr. Pruitt's management practices. "He didn't want anybody to question anything," Mr. Chmielewski said, adding that Mr. Pruitt "just doesn't understand what it's like to be a public figure." 
Mr. Pruitt testified before Congress last month that Mr. Chmielewski had resigned. 
Three other current and former agency officials, who asked not to be identified because they still work for the government, expressed similar views. 
The E.P.A. did not respond to requests for comment about the documents, which detail Mr. Pruitt's plans for travel and appearances nationwide. In the past, E.P.A. officials have said that Mr. Pruitt has faced an unprecedented number of death threats, which account for the size of his security force and the agency's refusal to make public his daily schedule. 
All politicians are attuned to image-building, of course, and employ staffs whose job is to control the environments in which they appear. Mr. Pruitt, though, has carried the practice to an extreme. 
Breaking with all of his predecessors at the E.P.A. for the last 25 years, as well as other members of President Trump's cabinet, he does not release a list of public speaking events and he discloses most official trips only after they are over. Mr. Pruitt doesn't hold news conferences, and in one episode, journalists who learned of an event were ejected from the premises after an E.P.A. official threatened to call the police. 
The E.P.A. also declined to make public Mr. Pruitt's detailed calendar until the agency was sued by The New York Times and other organizations. 
More recently, the agency moved to require that any documents related to Mr. Pruitt that are gathered as a result of Freedom of Information requests be provided to his political aides 48 hours in advance for an "awareness review" before they are made public, "to insure that leadership is aware of public disclosures," a June email said. 
Mr. Pruitt currently faces 11 investigations into his spending and management at the E.P.A., many of which stem from the appetite for secrecy. He is under investigation for first-class travel at taxpayer expense, his elaborate security detail and the installation at a cost of $43,000 of a soundproof booth for making telephone calls. 
Separately, a New York Times investigation found that, in 2003 when he served as a legislator in Oklahoma, Mr. Pruitt bought a home in a transaction that involved two lobbyists with business before the state, and disguised the purchase by using a shell company. 
The emails document Mr. Pruitt's top aides taking steps to block the public from his appearances. 
For example, at the Nevada, Iowa, event for ranchers, organizers of the event informed the E.P.A. that they had already announced that it would be open. The gathering, to celebrate Mr. Pruitt's plans to repeal an Obama-era water regulation that many ranchers dislike, "has been sold as a town hall meeting" -- meaning anyone could ask questions ­
- wrote Bill Couser, an Iowa cattle farmer who was helping to organize the event, in an email to the E.P.A. 
In Washington, E.P.A. officials objected. 
"With a crowd of 300 people plus open press, we have to stick with the questions we currently have," Millan Hupp, Mr. Pruitt's scheduling director, replied. 
The agency prevailed. Mr. Pruitt answered questions presented to him by Mr. Couser that were written by E.P.A. officials, according to the emails and a video recording of the 

event. 
Efforts like these to prevent reporters from attending events were not a part of the playbook for past E.P.A. administrators, according to spokeswomen for Christine Todd 

Whitman, who served in the George W. Bush administration, and Lisa Jackson and Gina McCarthy, who served under President Barack Obama. "They didn't selectively inform the press or take any steps to keep things secret," Heather Grizzle, a spokeswoman for Ms. Whitman, said. Mr. Pruitt takes a different approach. The emails show agency officials defining prospective guests at events as friendly or unfriendly, and reorganizing events at the last minute 
if there were concerns that people who are considered unfriendly might show up. 
"Sixteen friendly Industry leaders will be invited to attend they will arrive at 8:30 with the Administrator expected to arrive at 9:00 a.m.," said one memo, shared among top 

E.P.A. officials last September, in advance of a visit by Mr. Pruitt to Colorado Springs, Colo., where he was scheduled to speak to the National Association of Homebuilders. The 

event was closed to the public and not announced publicly ahead of time. 
Gerald M. Howard, the organization's top executive, "will moderate Q&A on Industry issues set forth in advance and possibly from the audience -- who are all industry friendly 
and supportive of Mr. Pruitt and his efforts," the description said. 

In another instance, after a Missouri news outlet discovered, and tweeted, that Mr. Pruitt was planning to speak to about 150 representatives of electric cooperatives and power-

plant owners last April, E.P.A. staff went into damage-control mode. 
The meeting had not been publicly disclosed. Tate Bennett -- who, as associate administrator at the E.P.A., is in charge of environmental education -- asked Barry Hart of the 
Association of Missouri Electric Cooperatives if the news organization, Missouri Network Television, was "the friendly outlet." 

Mr. Hart replied, "It is, but since it's a public tweet you have to assume the world now knows including all news media ... even unfriendly." 
Shaun Kober, founder of Missouri Network Television, said "we just try to lay out the facts." 
A public relations consultant for the Association of Missouri Electric Cooperatives, in consultation with the E.P.A., had already discussed a strategy to counteract any negative 

comments that appeared on social media. 
"Our plan will be to promote the feel-good activity and news from the event," Gus Wagner, a public relations executive working with organizers, wrote in one email shared with 

the E.P.A. "Comments that are positive will be liked and possibly shared," he wrote. "Comments that are derogatory and/or abusive will be hidden from public view. Commenter receives no notification this hiding has happened." Sometimes the E.P.A.'s approach to public relations -- issuing announcements only after events were over -- confused its hosts. Among them was Stephen Ciccone, a vice 
president for government affairs at Toyota Motor North America, which organized a visit by Mr. Pruitt to its Texas auto plant in August. 
"I thought you all did not want any press coverage?" Mr. Ciccone wrote, unsure as to why the E.P.A. would issue a news release at all. 
An email back from the E.P.A. explained the plan. The agency welcomed coverage as long as it was on the agency's terms. 
A release would be made "highlighting all the stops Administrator Pruitt makes during his visit to Texas," the email said. As planned, government-issued photos of a smiling Mr. 

Pruitt and executives from Toyota were posted on the E.P.A.'s website soon after the event was over, describing it as an "action tour." 
The effort to control the event almost fell apart when one journalist caught wind of the trip. 
"We just received an inquiry from a CBS News reporter in Dallas about the visit," Mr. Ciccone wrote to the E.P.A. on the day of the event. "We won't reply until the visit is over." 
One of Mr. Pruitt's early events described in the files, held just a month after he had started his new job as E.P.A. administrator, was an invitation-only breakfast at the Mandarin 

Oriental Hotel in Washington before some 250 executives from the nation's largest electric utilities. Mr. Pruitt had spent the previous six years as Oklahoma's attorney general 

attacking E.P.A. regulations in court, often in coordination with energy giants. 
"Whoever said you can't have your cake and eat it too, doesn't know what to do with cake," Mr. Pruitt told the energy executives, according to a speech prepared for the March 
2017 event. 

His remarks, which have not previously been made public, indicated that utilities had gained an ally with his appointment. He intended to expand energy production, he said, while protecting the environment. But, among other things, he described his effort to repeal the Obama-era Clean Power Plan, which was designed to slow climate change by reducing carbon dioxide emissions from coal-fired power plants. 
"The future ain't what it used to be," Mr. Pruitt said, invoking a Yogi Berra line that he would return to in speeches. 
In another instance not previously made public, Mr. Pruitt last June aided one of his longtime supporters, Richard Smotkin, who at that time was a Comcast lobbyist and who 

later helped organize Mr. Pruitt's controversial trip to Morocco. (A month after that December trip, Mr. Smotkin became a $40,000-a-month foreign agent promoting Morocco's 
interests abroad.) 
Mr. Smotkin's June request ran into ethics questions within the E.P.A.: He had invited Mr. Pruitt to a fund-raiser for a nonprofit group that Mr. Smotkin helps run, the American 

Council of Young Political Leaders, which offers foreign-exchange programs for emerging political leaders. At the event, Mr. Pruitt would be presented with an award in the form 

of a globe engraved with his name. 
"The Ethics department is asking me these questions about the event," wrote Sydney Hupp, a scheduler for Mr. Pruitt who is the sister of Millan Hupp, the scheduling director. 
(Both are former Pruitt campaign aides.) The questions had to do with the appropriateness of receiving an award at a fund-raising event. 

After a series of emails, Millan Hupp wrote back to the staff at the nonprofit group with a solution: Don't refer to Mr. Pruitt's job during the presentation. 
"Yes, the Administrator may attend the event, and yes, he may receive the globe. But please do ensure that they refer to him as the Honorable (as opposed to the EPA 
Administrator)" Ms. Hupp wrote. "So, yay! It's been approved through ethics." 

Photograph 
Scott Pruitt, the head of the E.P.A., with coal miners last month in Sycamore, Pa. His office normally makes his speaking appearances public only after they are over. 
(PHOTOGRAPH BY GENE J. PUSKAR/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A15) 
Copyright New York Times Company May 8, 2018 

Subject  Government agencies;  
Electronic mail systems;  
Transparency;  
Travel;  
Disclosure;  
Coal-fired power plants;  
Security management;  
Political leadership  
Location  United States--US  
People  Trump, Donald J; Pruitt, Scott  
Company / organization  Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS: 924110  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/05/07/climate/epa-pruitt-emails-secrecy.html  
Title  Lavish Security To Shield Pruitt From Questions: [National Desk]  
Author  Lipton, Eric; Friedman, Lisa  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.1  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  May 8, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2035556831  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2035556831?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company May 8, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-12  
Database  Global Newsstream  


document 133 of 236 



Outside Influence In Planning E.P.A. Trips: [National Desk] 
Friedman, Lisa; Lipton, Eric; Vogel, Kenneth P.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]03 May 2018: A.15. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Outside+Influence+In+Planning+E.P.A.+Trips%3A+%5BNational+Desk%5D&titl 05­03&volume=&issue=&spage=A.15&au=Friedman%2C+Lisa%3BLipton%2C+Eric%3BVogel%2C+Kenneth+P&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:d 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- A Washington consultant who was removed from President Trump's transition team for using his business email address for government work played a central role last year in planning a trip to Australia for Scott Pruitt, the head of the Environmental Protection Agency, and then took steps to disguise his role, new documents show. 
The consultant, Matthew C. Freedman, who is also a former lobbyist for foreign governments, runs his own corporate advisory firm and is treasurer of the American Australian Council, a group that helps promote business for American-based companies in Australia. Two prominent members include Chevron and ConocoPhillips. 
Though the Australia trip never happened -- it was canceled after Hurricane Harvey devastated much of the Texas Gulf Coast -- it shows a pattern in which Mr. Pruitt has repeatedly relied on people with clear business interests to shape the agenda of his foreign travel. Separately last year, a trip to Morocco was organized by a lobbyist who later was hired by Morocco as a $40,000-a-month foreign agent to represent its interests abroad. 
Mr. Freedman has spent decades as an international political consultant and lobbyist, starting in the 1980s as an employee of Paul Manafort when the two men worked together to help the embattled Philippine dictator Ferdinand Marcos. 
Mr. Manafort later became Mr. Trump's campaign chairman, and many of his former lobbying associates entered Mr. Trump's orbit, with some remaining in influential positions well after Mr. Manafort resigned from the campaign amid scrutiny of his work for Russia-aligned Ukrainian politicians. Mr. Manafort has since been indicted on charges related to that work by the special counsel investigating Russian interference in the 2016 election. 
Mr. Freedman worked on Mr. Trump's transition team in late 2016 on national security-related issues. He was removed after conducting government business using an email address associated with his consulting firm, Global Impact Inc., which fed the impression that he was using his position with the transition team to drum up business, according to an adviser to the transition. 
More recently, Mr. Freedman advised Mr. Trump's new national security adviser, John R. Bolton, as he prepared to take office, according to two people familiar with the arrangement. They said that he had worked as a special government employee during the Trump administration -- a position that allowed him to maintain his outside consulting business while working for the federal government. 
Mr. Freedman declined to comment. A statement he provided to The New York Times from the American Australian Council said that the group had authorized him to have discussions with the E.P.A. about the possible trip to Australia, "to further the mission" of the organization. 
Mr. Pruitt still has the support of Mr. Trump, a top White House official said Tuesday, despite the fact that Mr. Pruitt faces 11 investigations into his spending and management practices at the E.P.A. 
Jahan Wilcox, a spokesman for Mr. Pruitt, said that the agency's staff was in charge of planning the Australia trip and that Mr. Freedman's involvement began in mid-2017. 
However, emails released recently under the Freedom of Information Act to the Sierra Club, which sued to obtain the documents, appear to contradict that. The emails indicate Mr. Freedman was involved in early March, just weeks after Mr. Pruitt was confirmed as the E.P.A. chief, in coming up with reasons to justify a trip by Mr. Pruitt to Australia. 
Representative Don Beyer, Democrat of Virginia, who has been critical of Mr. Pruitt's spending, said the emails help to document allegations raised by Mr. Pruitt's former deputy chief of staff, Kevin Chmielewski, who had questioned Mr. Pruitt's travel spending before being pushed out of the agency earlier this year. 
"Pruitt's trips began with Pruitt ordering staff to 'find me something to do' to justify his expensive travel," Mr. Beyer said, quoting Mr. Chmielewski. Mr. Beyer said that the emails "also reveal that lobbyists for energy companies and foreign governments acted as travel agents." 
The Australian embassy said in a statement that it was unaware that Mr. Freedman had been working to arrange the trip, and that neither Mr. Freedman nor his company "has been engaged to represent Australia." The embassy added that the American Australian Council, for which Mr. Freedman serves as treasurer, "is an independent organization that does not represent the Australian government." 
Mr. Freedman advises global corporations seeking to break into the Australian business market, according to someone familiar with his work. 
Mr. Freedman frequently discussed the possible Australia trip with another lobbyist, Richard Smotkin, who has longstanding ties to Mr. Pruitt. Mr. Smotkin also helped organize Mr. Pruitt's December trip to Morocco, and then four months later signed the $40,000-a-month contract to represent an arm of the government of that North African country. 
Michael Brune, executive director of the Sierra Club, said in a statement, "It's no wonder these emails had to be forced out by a court: They expose the fact that corporate lobbyists are orchestrating Pruitt's taxpayer-funded trips to push their dangerous agendas." 
The emails with Mr. Freedman were among a collection of 6,337 pages of correspondence between corporate representatives and top political appointees at the E.P.A. Most were sent to Millan Hupp, a top political aide to Mr. Pruitt. Ms. Hupp also worked with Mr. Pruitt as a political assistant when he was Oklahoma's attorney general. 
Ms. Hupp served as a gatekeeper for Mr. Pruitt with companies and organizations interested in getting on his calendar or inviting him to an event, the emails indicate. Those companies have included the coal producer Peabody Energy and Koch Industries, the conglomerate controlled by the billionaire brothers David and Charles Koch, as well as dozens of others, with a particular emphasis on fossil-fuel-related firms and chemical industry and agriculture groups such as the American Farm Bureau. 
Mr. Freedman is not registered as a lobbyist for the government of Australia, nor is he currently registered to lobby on behalf of any foreign or domestic clients in the United States, according to records on file with Congress and the Department of Justice. They show that a now-inactive firm he had formed with Mr. Manafort was last registered to lobby in the late 1990s, when it represented the government of Nigeria and the Argentine politician Alberto Pierri. 
Mr. Freedman's associates say he continues to advise international clients in various capacities that do not trigger lobbying disclosure requirements. 
In the emails, Mr. Freedman offered Ms. Hupp a series of suggestions as to whom Mr. Pruitt could meet with on the trip to Australia. Mr. Freedman said he had already been talking to top government officials there to get the planning started. 
"I've been in direct contact with the Minister in Aus, and we will be speaking with his senior staffer (Cosi) who is the lead from their side on Monday night," Mr. Freedman wrote to Ms. Hupp in late June, as the planning for the trip got underway. "Also, Jim Carouso, the Charge at the US Emb in Canberra is a close personal friend and would likely have good inputs, but I want to wait a bit before I contact him." 
In a separate email, he suggested Mr. Pruitt meet with top Australian officials including Foreign Minister Julie Bishop and Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull. And he went on to suggest topics that could be discussed at the meeting, including "the current US Australian environmental agreements that are currently in place and whether they should be changed or updated or canceled or replaced." 
Mr. Freedman placed a condition on the assistance he was providing: His involvement should not be disclosed. "Rick and I will be present but not listed as members of the delegation," Mr. Freedman wrote, referring to Mr. Smotkin. 
Ms. Hupp's input in these email exchanges was short, with notes back to Mr. Freedman like "Sounds good. We will plan for Monday morning," in response to a request in July from Mr. Freedman to discuss the Australia trip. 
The exchanges showed an awareness that traveling to Australia would have its complexities, given that Mr. Pruitt is a climate change skeptic. 
"There are challenges to a visit," Mr. Freedman wrote in one March 2017 memo, as the debate over the trip first started. "It would highlight the Australian Government aggressive support for policies that may not be in sync with the Trump Administration, and the strong financial role played by the Australian Government in protecting the environment." 
Later, on July 18, Mr. Freedman wrote to Ms. Hupp to say that Mr. Pruitt should be prepared for a "confused and angry group of Aussies" who were likely to disagree with Mr. Trump's policies. 
On climate change specifically, Mr. Freedman wrote that he had been in touch with the executive director of the Institute of Public Affairs, an Australian think tank that he described as being "aligned with the Trump vision on various issues" including coal and deregulation. Mr. Freedman said he planned to suggest more people Mr. Pruitt should meet through that organization. 
The emails released to the Sierra Club also provide further documentation of the role that Mr. Smotkin played in setting up Mr. Pruitt's December visit to Morocco. Ms. Hupp turned to Mr. Smotkin in September to set up a meeting with the Moroccan ambassador to the United States. 
"Would you be so kind as to pass along these three dates as potential for a meeting with the Moroccan Minister?" Ms. Hupp wrote to Mr. Smotkin. He agreed to do so, and wrote back to correct the title: "Will do. It is the ambassador." 
Though the trip to Australia was ultimately canceled, vouchers previously released by the E.P.A. show that two aides and three security officials spent about $45,000 traveling there to set up meetings and prepare for Mr. Pruitt's arrival. 
Credit: LISA FRIEDMAN, ERIC LIPTON and KENNETH P. VOGEL; Adam Goldman and Katie Rogers contributed reporting. 
Photograph 
Scott Pruitt, the head of the E.P.A., at a House subcommittee last month. His trip to Morocco last year was organized by a former lobbyist who was later hired by the country as a foreign agent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) Copyright New York Times Company May 3, 2018 
Subject 	Councils; 
National security; 
Politics; 

Planning; 

Diplomatic & consular services; 

Electronic mail systems; 
Travel; 
Lobbyists 


Location 	New York; United States--US; Australia; Morocco 
People 	Pruitt, Scott 
Company / organization 	Name: New York Times Co 

NAICS: 511110, 511120, 515112, 515120; 


Name: Sierra Club NAICS: 813312 
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/05/02/climate/epa-pruitt-australia-travel.html  
Title  Outside Influence In Planning E.P.A. Trips: [National Desk]  
Author  Friedman, Lisa; Lipton, Eric; Vogel, Kenneth P  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.15  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  May 3, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2033585599  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2033585599?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company May 3, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-12  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 134 of 236 



More Reason To Avoid Bugs This Summer: [National Desk] 
Mcneil, Donald G, Jr.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]02 May 2018: A.1. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=More+Reason+To+Avoid+Bugs+This+Summer%3A+%5BNational+Desk%5D&tit 05-02&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Mcneil%2C+Donald+G%2C+Jr&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Farewell, carefree days of summer. 
The number of people getting diseases transmitted by mosquito, tick and flea bites has more than tripled in the United States in recent years, federal health officials reported on 
Tuesday. Since 2004, at least nine such diseases have been discovered or newly introduced here. 
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention did not suggest that Americans drop plans for softball games or hammock snoozes. But officials emphasized that it's increasingly 

important for everyone -- especially children -- to be protected from outdoor pests with bug repellent. 

New tickborne diseases like Heartland virus are showing up in the continental United States, even as cases of Lyme disease and other established infections are growing. On 
island territories like Puerto Rico, the threat is mosquitoes carrying viruses like dengue and Zika. 
Warmer weather is an important cause of the surge, according to the lead author of a study published in the C.D.C.'s Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report. 
But the author, Dr. Lyle R. Petersen, the agency's director of vector-borne diseases, declined to link the increase to the politically fraught issue of climate change, and the report 

does not mention climate change or global warming. Many other factors are at work, he emphasized, including increased jet travel and a lack of vaccines. 
"The numbers on some of these diseases have gone to astronomical levels," Dr. Petersen added. 

C.D.C. officials called for more support for state and local health departments. Local agencies "are our first line of defense," said Dr. Robert Redfield, the new director at the 
agency, which is facing its own deep budget cuts. "We must enhance our investment in their ability to fight these diseases." 
Although state and local health departments get brief infusions of cash during health scares like the Zika epidemic in 2016, they are chronically underfunded. A recent survey of 
mosquito control agencies found that 84 percent needed help with such basics as surveillance and testing for resistance to pesticides, Dr. Petersen said. 

[READ: Tips for Protecting Yourself Against Mosquitoes and Ticks ] 

Between 2004 and 2016, about 643,000 cases of 16 insect-borne illnesses were reported to the C.D.C. -- 27,000 a year in 2004, rising to 96,000 by 2016. (The year 2004 was 
chosen as a baseline because the agency began requiring more detailed reporting then.) 
The real case numbers were undoubtedly far larger, Dr. Petersen said. For example, the C.D.C. estimates that about 300,000 Americans get Lyme disease each year, but only 

about 35,000 diagnoses are reported. 

The study did not delve into the reasons for the increase, but Dr. Petersen said it was probably caused by many factors, including two related to weather: ticks thriving in 
regions previously too cold for them, and hot spells triggering outbreaks of mosquito-borne diseases. 
Other factors, he said, include expanded human travel, suburban reforestation and a dearth of new vaccines to stop outbreaks. 
More jet travel from the tropics means that previously obscure viruses like dengue and Zika are moving long distances rapidly in human blood. (By contrast, malaria and yellow 

fever are thought to have reached the Americas on slave ships three centuries ago.) 
A good example, Dr. Petersen said, was chikungunya, which causes joint pain so severe that it is called "bending-up disease." 
In late 2013, a Southeast Asian strain arrived on the Dutch Caribbean island of St. Maarten, its first appearance in this hemisphere. Within one year, local transmission had 

occurred everywhere in the Americas except Canada, Chile, Peru and Bolivia. 

Tickborne diseases, the report found, are rising steadily in the Northeast, the Upper Midwest and California. Ticks spread Lyme disease, anaplasmosis, babesiosis, Rocky Mountain spotted fever, rabbit fever, Powassan virus and other ills, some of them only recently discovered. Ticks need deer or rodents as their main blood hosts, and those have increased as forests in suburbs have gotten thicker, deer hunting has waned, and rodent predators like 
foxes have disappeared. 
[READ: Lyme Disease's Worst Enemy? It Might Be Foxes] 

(A century ago, the Northeast had fewer trees than it now does; forests made a comeback as farming shifted west and firewood for heating was replaced by coal, oil and gas.) 
Most disease outbreaks related to mosquitoes since 2004 have been in Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands and American Samoa. But West Nile virus, which arrived in 1999, now appears unpredictably across the country; Dallas, for example, saw a big outbreak in 2012. 
For most of these diseases, there are no vaccines and no treatment, so the only way to fight back is through mosquito control, which is expensive and rarely stops outbreaks. Miami, for instance, was the only city in the Western Hemisphere to halt a Zika outbreak with pesticides. 
The only flea-borne disease mentioned in the C.D.C. report is plague, the bacterium responsible for the medieval Black Death. It remains rare but persistent: Between two and 17 cases were reported from 2004 to 2016, mostly in the Southwest. The infection can be cured with antibiotics. 
Dr. Nicholas Watts, a global health specialist at University College London and co-author of a major 2017 report on climate change and health, said warmer weather is spreading disease in many wealthy countries, not just the United States. 
In Britain, he said, tick diseases are expanding as summers lengthen, and malaria is becoming more common in the northern reaches of Australia. 
But Paul Reiter, a medical entomologist at the Pasteur Institute, has argued that some environmentalists exaggerate the disease threats posed by climate change. 
The 2003-2014 period fell during what he described as "a pause" in global warming, although the notion is disputed by other experts. 
Still, the dynamics of disease transmission are complicated, and driven by more than temperature. For example, transmission of West Nile virus requires that certain birds be present, too. 
In the Dust Bowl years of the 1930s, St. Louis encephalitis, a related virus, surged, "and it looked like climate issues were involved," Dr. Reiter said. But the increase turned out to depend more on varying hot-cold and wet-dry spells and the interplay of two different mosquito species. St. Louis encephalitis virtually disappeared, weather notwithstanding. 
"It's a complicated, multidimensional system," Dr. Reiter said. 
A. Marm Kilpatrick, a disease ecologist at the University of California, Santa Cruz, said many factors beside hot weather were at work in the United States, including "a hump-shaped relationship between temperature and transmission potential." 
Warm weather helps mosquitoes and ticks breed and transmit disease faster, he explained. But after a certain point, the hotter and drier it gets, the more quickly the pests die. So disease transmission to humans peaks somewhere between mildly warm and hellishly hot weather. 
Experts also pointed out that the increase in reports of spreading disease may have resulted partially from more testing. 
Lyme disease made family doctors begin to suspect tick bites in patients with fevers. Laboratories began looking for different pathogens in blood samples, especially in patients who did not have Lyme. That led to the discovery of previously unknown diseases. 
Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Follow @NYTHealth on Twitter. 

Photograph 
Warmer weather has helped drive a surge in illnesses transmitted by mosquitoes, fleas or ticks in the United States, the C.D.C. said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FELIPE 
DANA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A1); The C.D.C. says tickborne diseases like Lyme are rising steadily in the Northeast, which has more trees now than a century ago. 
(PHOTOGRAPH BY EDUCATION IMAGES/UIG, VIA GETTY IMAGES) (A12) 
Copyright New York Times Company May 2, 2018 

Subject 	Arachnids; 
Encephalitis; 
Zika virus; 

Insect control; 
West Nile virus; 
Pesticides; 
Public health; 
Fever; 
Mosquitoes; 

Climate change; 
Lyme disease; 
Tropical diseases; 

Disease transmission 


Company / organization 	Name: Centers for Disease Control & Prevention--CDC 

NAICS: 923120 


URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/05/01/health/ticks-mosquitoes-diseases.html 
Title 	More Reason To Avoid Bugs This Summer: [National Desk] 
Author 	Mcneil, Donald G, Jr 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.1 
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  May 2, 2018  
column  Global Health  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2033173279  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2033173279?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company May 2, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-12  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 135 of 236 


Lobbyist Steered E.P.A. Leader's Agenda Abroad: [National Desk] 
Lipton, Eric; Friedman, Lisa; Vogel, Kenneth P.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]02 May 2018: A.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Lobbyist+Steered+E.P.A.+Leader%27s+Agenda+Abroad%3A+%5BNational+Des 05­02&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Lipton%2C+Eric%3BFriedman%2C+Lisa%3BVogel%2C+Kenneth+P&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:do 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- Scott Pruitt, the head of the Environmental Protection Agency, allowed a lobbyist friend to play an unusually influential role in setting his agenda during a visit in December to Morocco, according to internal communications related to the scheduling of meetings reviewed by The New York Times. 
Just months after helping to organize the trip, the lobbyist, Richard Smotkin, was hired by the government of Morocco as a $40,000-a-month foreign agent, according to filings with the Department of Justice. Mr. Smotkin participated in several meetings with Mr. Pruitt in Morocco, including with representatives from some industries, according to participants on the trip. 
Mr. Smotkin had worked as a lobbyist for Comcast when he first came to know Mr. Pruitt in Oklahoma, where Mr. Pruitt served as attorney general before joining the Trump administration. 
Mr. Pruitt is facing at least 11 investigations examining his first-class travel, pay raises given to his staff, money spent on security and office furnishings, and frequent trips he took to his home in Oklahoma after he was confirmed, at taxpayer expense. 
Members of Congress had questioned whether there was a legitimate government reason for Mr. Pruitt to travel to Morocco and also questioned the cost of the trip. Moreover, the swiftness with which Mr. Smotkin then received the Morocco contract raises questions about whether the trip helped Mr. Smotkin secure the deal. 
"It makes it almost look like it was part of a business cultivation effort," said Meredith McGehee, executive director of IssueOne, a nonprofit government ethics group. 
Mr. Smotkin, who has not publicly disclosed his role in planning the Morocco trip, did not respond to requests for comment. There is no evidence that he has business before the 
E.P.A. 
Jahan Wilcox, an E.P.A. spokesman, did not dispute that Mr. Smotkin participated in the Morocco trip, or some of the meetings that involved Mr. Pruitt. But he said that the visit was organized by agency staff members. 
"EPA's Office of International and Tribal Affairs organized and led the effort around Administrator Pruitt's official meetings with the Moroccan government," Mr. Wilcox said in a statement Tuesday. "Additionally, Mr. Smotkin did not attend or participate in any official meetings with the Moroccan government." 
Mr. Pruitt last week faced pointed questions from two congressional oversight committees about his spending and management of the E.P.A., with some lawmakers demanding additional information about his travel and security spending. Mr. Pruitt has often flown on first-class flights, with the airfare alone to Morocco costing more than $16,000. 
On Tuesday, two of his top aides, including his head of his security detail, resigned. 
Mr. Pruitt has also faced questions about why he focused on the trip on promoting liquefied natural gas exports, an issue that is not part of the E.P.A.'s mission. Mr. Pruitt testified that the Moroccan ambassador invited him to the country to negotiate the environment portion of a free-trade agreement. He said the ambassador, Lalla Joumala, asked him to raise the issue of liquefied natural gas when he was in Morocco. 
In April, Mr. Smotkin signed the lobbying contract with the embassy of Morocco to "craft an outreach program" that includes promoting Morocco as a film destination, with the start date of this contract backdated to January. His connection to Mr. Pruitt's Morocco trip was first reported over the weekend in Le Desk, a Moroccan news outlet, and on Tuesday in The Washington Post. 
During his time in Oklahoma, Mr. Pruitt and Mr. Smotkin developed a friendship as they repeatedly met up at resort destinations, including at an elite mountainside lodge in Park City, Utah, and the Broadmoor hotel in Colorado Springs for meetings of Republican attorneys general, attendance lists of the events show. 
"He has a good relationship with Scott Pruitt," said Walter Cohen, the former Pennsylvania attorney general, who has also worked as a lawyer for Comcast, and who was present at several of the social and campaign-fund-raising events. "Some of these meetings we would go out to have dinner with Scott and his wife and Rick and a couple of other people." 
Mr. Smotkin told Mr. Cohen, among others interviewed by The Times, that he had played a role in helping set up the Morocco trip. Mr. Smotkin has been visiting Morocco on behalf of Comcast for several years, working to help promote the northern African nation as a site for film productions for Comcast and its subsidiaries, NBCUniversal and other film companies. 
Mr. Smotkin organized several of the meetings Mr. Pruitt held in Marrakesh and Rabat, according to people familiar with the arrangements. Among the meetings was a Dec. 12 discussion with Mostafa Terrab, the chairman of Morocco's state-owned phosphate mining company, OCP Group, which Mr. Smotkin attended. Mr. Pruitt during the trip stayed at the luxury Hôtel Sofitel Marrakech, one agency official on the trip said. 
The day after the meeting, Mr. Smotkin attended a conference sponsored by the OCP Policy Center, a think tank funded by the phosphate giant. 
A representative for OCP, which originally stood for Office Chérifien des Phosphates, did not respond to a request for comment. 
Maria Bensaid, a spokeswoman for the Moroccan Embassy, said in a statement that the embassy issued the invitation to Mr. Pruitt "to further our partnership and deepen certain sectors of cooperation." She said all working visits there were organized through official diplomatic channels. 
Mr. Smotkin was among the Comcast executives who made a contribution in 2013 to Mr. Pruitt as he prepared to run for a second term as attorney general. During Mr. Pruitt's tenure in Oklahoma, Mr. Smotkin joined with other movie industry executives to reach out to Mr. Pruitt's office, emails show, to seek help in urging an investigation into Google, which NBCUniversal and other companies believed was not doing enough to combat the illegal distribution of bootlegged films on the internet. 
Mr. Smotkin, who had been listed as a lobbyist contact on behalf of Comcast in Canada, had also played a role in setting up a March 2017 meeting between Mr. Pruitt and Stephen J. Harper, the former prime minister of Canada, who, like Mr. Pruitt, is a known climate change skeptic. 
A spokeswoman for Comcast said that Mr. Smotkin left the company last July and that Comcast was not involved in the Morocco trip. 
On Mr. Pruitt's other foreign trip as E.P.A. administrator -- to Italy in June -- he also granted unusual access to a friend, Leonard A. Leo, who heads a conservative judicial group, the Federalist Society, according to three people involved in that trip. Mr. Leo was involved in some aspects of planning the trip and also joined Mr. Pruitt during a visit to the Vatican for a private Mass. 
Two people involved in the travel arrangements said Mr. Leo's involvement was unusual because outside personnel do not typically help plan international trips for E.P.A. administrators and because his name was not listed on any publicly released documents. 
Like Mr. Smotkin, Mr. Leo has enjoyed privileged status at the E.P.A., according to a former agency official, who said that requests made by them were treated as a priority. If either called Mr. Pruitt's office "and asked for something, we did it, it doesn't matter what it was," said the former official, who requested anonymity for fear of running afoul of Mr. Leo, who is powerful among conservatives in Washington. 
The relationship between Mr. Leo and Mr. Pruitt stems from their involvement in conservative legal fights at the state level. 
In Oklahoma, Mr. Pruitt led the way in legal challenges brought by Republican-led states to Obama administration policies. He also was active in nonprofit groups that sought to spur such fights, including the Republican Attorneys General Association and the Rule of Law Defense Fund. Mr. Pruitt helped create the Rule of Law Defense Fund to assist conservatives who then were using the federal court system to try to block President Barack Obama's environmental efforts, such as the Clean Power Plan. 
Mr. Leo, email records from Mr. Pruitt's Oklahoma office show, joined with Mr. Pruitt to help coordinate some of these efforts, and to raise money for them. 
For example, in 2013, Devon Energy, an Oklahoma-based oil and gas company that had close ties to Mr. Pruitt, organized a meeting between Mr. Pruitt, Mr. Leo and a coal industry lawyer, Paul M. Seby, to create a "clearinghouse" that would be named the Center for Energy Independence and "assist AGs in addressing federalism issues," referring to state attorneys general, emails obtained from Mr. Pruitt's Oklahoma office show. 
Mr. Pruitt's chief of staff at the time emailed Devon Energy, saying that "this will be an amazing resource for the AGs and for industry." 
Mr. Leo was a director of a nonprofit group called the Rule of Law Project that donated $145,000 to the Rule of Law Defense Fund in 2014. 
Mr. Leo, at the time Mr. Pruitt served as attorney general, also helped introduce Mr. Pruitt to other key conservatives in Washington, including inviting Mr. Pruitt to a private dinner that included the Supreme Court Justices Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas, Mr. Pruitt said in a speech he gave in 2016. 
Mr. Leo -- an observant Catholic who has played a major role in recommending anti-abortion, anti-regulation judicial nominees for President Trump -- accompanied Mr. Pruitt to a private Mass at the Vatican that Mr. Leo helped arrange, according to agency officials who traveled to Rome with Mr. Pruitt. "He was driving most of the schedule," one former 
E.P.A. official said of Mr. Leo. 
Mr. Leo also joined Mr. Pruitt and his top aides at a top restaurant in Rome, where the bill for the meal totaled several hundred dollars per participant, according to one of the officials. The official said that Mr. Leo traveled with Mr. Pruitt in his motorcade to the Vatican and to the restaurant over the objections of Mr. Pruitt's aides, according to the official. 
Since becoming E.P.A. administrator, Mr. Pruitt has attended events held by the Federalist Society, where he is regarded as the deregulatory champion of the moment.Major donors to the Federalist Society include the Charles G. Koch Charitable Foundation, David H. Koch, Koch Industries and the Chevron Corporation. 
Government ethics officials said that at a minimum, Mr. Pruitt's calendar -- an official government document that has been released after Freedom of Information requests by The Times -- should have included details related to the role that Mr. Leo and Mr. Smotkin played in these trips, or their presence as part of the delegation. Neither is mentioned. 
"With transparency comes accountability," said Ms. McGehee of IssueOne, the nonprofit government ethics group. 
Photograph 
Scott Pruitt, the head of the E.P.A., met with Morocco's transportation minister, Aziz Rabbah, left, during a trip to the country last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY) (A16) Copyright New York Times Company May 2, 2018 
Subject 	Federalism; 
Motion picture directors & producers; 
Diplomatic & consular services; 

Charitable foundations; 
Rule of law; 

Congressional investigations; 

Lobbyists; 

Political ethics; 
Influence; 
Executives; 

Natural gas; Fund raising; Attorneys general; Meetings; Travel; Environmental protection; Nonprofit organizations  
Location  Morocco; United States--US  
People  Smotkin, Richard; Pruitt, Scott  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Comcast Corp 517110, 517210, 517919;  
Name: NAICS:  Devon Energy Corp 211111;  
Name: NAICS:  Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 924110;  
Name: NAICS:  NBCUniversal Inc 512110, 515120;  
Name: NAICS:  Federalist Society 541720  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/05/01/us/pruitt-epa-trips-lobbyists.html  
Title  Lobbyist Steered E.P.A. Leader's Agenda Abroad: [National Desk]  
Author  Lipton, Eric; Friedman, Lisa; Vogel, Kenneth P  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.1  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  May 2, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2033173169  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2033173169?accountid=14902  

Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company May 2, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-12  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 136 of 236 



Embattled Director's Mentor and Ally Says Ethics Questions Are a Concern: [National Desk] 
Davenport, Coral.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]25 Apr 2018: A.15. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Embattled+Director%27s+Mentor+and+Ally+Says+Ethics+Questions+Are+a+Co 04-25&volume=&issue=&spage=A.15&au=Davenport%2C+Coral&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- Scott Pruitt, the head of the Environmental Protection Agency, may be losing support even from his staunchest allies. His longtime political patron, Senator James Inhofe, said Tuesday that he would like to see an investigation into the ethical allegations against his protégé. If any prove true, he said, they could "have an effect" on Mr. Pruitt's job. 
Mr. Inhofe said he was troubled by a recent New York Times story that detailed allegations of unchecked spending and ethics questions during Mr. Pruitt's career as attorney general and state senator in Oklahoma. 
"I've known him since he was in the state legislature and supported him," Mr. Inhofe said Tuesday. "These are accusations I did not know anything about." 
It is a remarkable turn for Mr. Inhofe, who as the senior senator from Oklahoma had championed the career of Mr. Pruitt, a fellow conservative from his home state. 
Mr. Inhofe, 83, who has long been known for his view that the established science of human-caused climate change is a hoax, seemed to have found a kindred spirit and possible successor in Mr. Pruitt, 49. As attorney general of Oklahoma, Mr. Pruitt built his career suing the Obama administration over environmental regulations, particularly on climate change. Mr. Pruitt is widely thought to be considering a run for Mr. Inhofe's Senate seat when he retires. 
Mr. Inhofe once flew Mr. Pruitt around the state in his personal airplane as the younger man campaigned for office. When the Trump administration nominated Mr. Pruitt to run the E.P.A., Mr. Inhofe gave him a glowing introductory speech at his Senate confirmation hearing. 
As reports have piled up in recent weeks questioning the ethics of several of Mr. Pruitt's decisions, including his illegal purchase of an office phone booth, his expenditures on first-class travel and his rental of a condominium linked to an energy lobbyist, Mr. Inhofe continued to support him. 
But Mr. Inhofe said on Tuesday that he was now concerned enough about the allegations -- particularly those of ethical lapses in Oklahoma -- that he would like to see them investigated. 
"I want to check and see how authentic the accusations against him are. If they are authentic it could have an effect," he said. "But sometimes things are not all that authentic." 
The possible loss of Mr. Inhofe's support means "that Pruitt is in big trouble," John Feehery, a Republican strategist who worked for former House Speaker Dennis Hastert and the former House majority leader Tom DeLay, wrote in an email. 
Ultimately, of course, Mr. Pruitt's fate depends on President Trump, who until now has continued to back his E.P.A. chief, cheering his aggressive efforts to roll back Obama-era environmental regulations. 
Asked about Mr. Pruitt on Monday, the White House press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, said: "Administrator Pruitt has done a good job of implementing the president's policies, particularly on deregulation; making the United States less energy-dependent and becoming more energy independent. Those are good things. However, the other things certainly are something that we're monitoring and looking at and I'll keep you posted." 
Mr. Inhofe said he had not spoken with Mr. Trump or Mr. Pruitt in recent days, but the president and the Oklahoma senator have a good relationship. They spoke several times by phone during Mr. Trump's presidential campaign, and Mr. Inhofe's influence on environmental policy is evident throughout the Trump administration: many of his former staff members now work at the White House and the E.P.A. 
Indeed, much of Mr. Trump's environmental agenda, like undoing E.P.A. climate change rules and pulling the United States out of the Paris climate change accord, is taken straight from the playbook Mr. Inhofe has pushed for years on Capitol Hill. 
Privately, many of the former Inhofe staff members now in the Trump administration say they are fed up with the chaos surrounding Mr. Pruitt and are more than ready to see him go. They noted that another former member of Inhofe's staff, Andrew Wheeler, had recently been confirmed as Mr. Pruitt's deputy, and that Mr. Wheeler, a former coal lobbyist, was well positioned to continue the agenda of rolling back environmental rules should Mr. Pruitt step down. 
Some of the former Inhofe staff members noted that they were not surprised to see their former boss raise questions about Mr. Pruitt once the allegations about Mr. Pruitt's ethical lapses touched his home state. 
"Senator Inhofe is a very principled guy," said Dimitri Karakitsos, who used to work for Mr. Inhofe and now represents energy companies with the Washington law firm Holland & Knight. "Despite his reputation for being an ideologue, his character is why he has such good relationships with so many people, including Democrats. He's not the type of person to blindly support someone in any circumstance." 
Mr. Karakitsos added: "He's big on government waste and abuse of power. If there is inappropriate behavior or misappropriation of funds, he takes that seriously, and he is a great champion and voice for the people of Oklahoma who take it seriously as well." 
Mr. Pruitt is scheduled to appear before two House committees for questioning on Thursday. 

Photograph 
Senator James Inhofe, right, in 2012 with Scott Pruitt, who was then Oklahoma's attorney general. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS MADDALONI/CQ ROLL CALL) Copyright New York Times Company Apr 25, 2018 
Subject 	Attorneys general; 
Careers; 

Government waste; 
Bills; 

Environmental regulations; 

Lobbyists; 

Ethics; 
Energy industry; 

Climate change 


Location 	New York; United States--US; Oklahoma 
People 	Sanders, Sarah Huckabee; Trump, Donald J; Wheeler, Andrew; Inhofe, James M; 

Hastert, J Dennis; DeLay, Tom; Pruitt, Scott 


Company / organization 	Name: New York Times Co 

NAICS: 511110, 511120, 515112, 515120; 


Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA NAICS: 924110; 
Name: Senate NAICS: 921120; 
Name: Holland & Knight NAICS: 541110 
URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/24/climate/pruitt-inhofe-epa-ethics.html 
Title 	Embattled Director's Mentor and Ally Says Ethics Questions Are a Concern: [National Desk] 
Author 	Davenport, Coral 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.15 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Apr 25, 2018 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	General Interest Periodicals--United States 
ISSN 	03624331 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2030073708  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2030073708?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Apr 25, 2018  
Last updated  2019-02-22  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 137 of 236 


Coal Warms Poland's Hearths, and Fouls Its Skies: [Foreign Desk] 
Nabrdalik, Maciek; Santora, Marc.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]23 Apr 2018: A.4. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Coal+Warms+Poland%27s+Hearths%2C+and+Fouls+Its+Skies%3A+%5BForeig 04-23&volume=&issue=&spage=A.4&au=Nabrdalik%2C+Maciek%3BSantora%2C+Marc&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
ZAR MOUNTAIN, Poland -- High atop the ski lift at Zar Mountain in southern Poland, the villages below disappear. At first, they seem obscured by morning fog. But the yellow haze does not lift. It hangs heavy, the contrast with the white snow making it clear that something is off. 
What is off is the air. Poland has some the most polluted air in all of the European Union, and 33 of its 50 dirtiest cities. Not even mountain retreats are immune. 
The problem is largely a result of the country's love affair with coal. Like elsewhere in Poland, most of the homes in the villages below Zar Mountain are still heated by coal. 
Some 19 million people rely on coal for heat in winter. In all of the European Union, 80 percent of private homes using coal are in Poland. 

Coal, commonly referred to as "black gold," is seen as a patriotic alternative to Russian gas in this country, which broke away from Soviet control three decades ago and 

remains deeply suspicious of its neighbor to the east. Burning coal is part of daily life. 
Many street corners, near bus and tram stops, feature containers known as braziers that burn coke, a coal derivative that is chiefly carbon. On a recent morning in 
Swietochlowice, to the north, children threw in sticks and paper, sucking in the fumes. 

Outdated furnaces burn coal, too. Andrzej Machno, who lives in the small city of Skawina, northeast of Zar Mountain, has used the same furnace for more than three decades. 
He has been waiting for local government funding to change to a newer, cleaner-burning model. But it is not clear when the money will arrive, or if he will qualify. 
"I think all the promises come with elections," Mr. Machno said. But once the campaigns are over, he said, all the grand ideas fade away. 
In the meantime, the smog is everywhere. 
Driving through small villages near Rybnik, about two hours to the northwest of the mountain and one of the cities ranked as the European Union's most polluted, smoke poured 

out of the houses that hug the main road. 

It was evening, but strangely bright as smoke particles diffused the light from street lamps, creating an eerie orange glow. "This doesn't look right," a father said as he hurried past with his son, his jacket pulled above his mouth. In Krakow, with its majestic castle looming over the old town, many of the buildings are still equipped with furnaces dating back decades. At the beginning of the winter, coal 
deliverymen make the rounds. 
But now so do eco-consultants for the local government, which has undertaken one of the most ambitious projects in the country to wean people off burning coal or wood. 
The Krakow government has outlawed the use of the cheapest, most polluting coal, and by 2019, aims to ban all burning of coal and wood. 
The government workers try to help residents with the transition to cleaner fuel and furnaces, and guide them to available funds to pay for it. 
If the effort succeeds, it may provide a model for other cities around the country. Already it has cut the number of outdated furnaces to about 10,000, from more than double 

that several years ago. 
Other municipalities, like Katowice, about an hour's drive west of Krakow, are using drones to monitor household emissions. 
But overall action has been lacking from the national government of the Law and Justice party, which has long championed the politically powerful coal industry. 
In December, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki used one of his first speeches to announce plans to build two new coal mines in Silesia, the industrial region in southwest 

Poland. 

As the toll mounts from the pollution problem, especially for children, the government is also coming under greater pressure, including the prospect of fines for violating European Union standards. Some 48,000 Poles are estimated to die annually from illnesses related to poor air quality. Greenpeace estimated that 62 percent of Poland's kindergartens are in heavily 
polluted areas. 
In response, the government announced that it will spend $8.8 billion by 2028 to combat smog. 

"We don't want our children to associate winter with masks on their faces, but with snow and sleds and snowmen," Mr. Morawiecki said. 
Industry and transportation are also big contributors to the smog. Poland is infamous for having the oldest cars in the European Union, with the average age of the car 13 years. 
A social movement has sprung up across the country to combat pollution and educate people, especially children. 
A physiotherapist by profession, Jolanta Sitarz-Wojcicka became an activist two years ago, when she had a baby and realized that the air outside was so bad she could not leave her home without risking the health of her newborn. 
She took up the cause in her hometown of Zakopane, the southeast of the mountain, and now it is her sole focus. Winning the war on smog requires changing habits deeply embedded in the culture. She starts with educating school children. 
At a primary school in Nowe Bystre near Zakopane, she showed the kids different pictures of trash and asked them which is O.K. to burn in a furnace. 
"The smaller the village, the more interesting the responses," she said. It is not what they are taught, she said, but what they see. And they often see people burning anything that will burn. 
Thanks to a grant from the European Union, she can dedicate herself full time to the cause. But she is worried. 
If the situation does not improve in the next few years, she said, she plans to move to Sweden. 
Others already move to escape the pollution. Andrzej Bargiel, a well-known Polish mountaineer, used to live in downtown Zakopane, where the air gave him constant headaches. He feels better since relocating above the city, he said. 
Aneta Seidler, a local leader of a Smog Alert group in Nowy Targ, in southern Poland, who has one child and is pregnant with a second, tries not to let her family leave the house, where they have plenty of air filters. They often leave the country in the winter. 
"To breathe," she said. 
Oliwer Palarz, an activist with the Rybnik Smog Alert group, makes his children Antoni and Tymon wear anti-smog masks while outside. He is suing the Polish government, claiming that its lack of action on pollution has violated his civil rights. 
Many are not optimistic things are headed in the right direction. The European Court of Justice ruled that Poland infringed air quality laws between 2007 and 2015 by continuously exceeding pollution values. 
While the European Union continues to play a leading role in action to limit global warming, Poland is likely to be an outlier for some time. 
Poland's appetite for coal is so great, it is even importing more and more of it from the United States, where Trump administration has been trying to revive its own coal industry. 
In Belchatow, Poland maintains Europe's largest coal-fired utility plant, at the edge of a coal mine eight miles long and two miles wide. 
It shows no signs of slowing, and continues to belch out carbon at an astounding rate. It the largest carbon emitter in Europe. 
Photograph 
Smog over the valley below Zar Mountain, in southern Poland, where coal is used for heat in winter. Poland has long relied on coal, but is trying to change.; Municipal workers in Krakow visited Elzbieta Sadowska to discuss upgrading her heating system. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MACIEK NABRDALIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) Copyright New York Times Company Apr 23, 2018 
Subject 	Furnaces; 
Air pollution; 

Local elections; 
Outdoor air quality; 
Local government; 
Pollution control; 
Carbon; 
Environmental regulations; 

Smog; 
Coal industry 


Location 	Poland 
Company / organization 	Name: European Union 

NAICS: 926110, 928120 


URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/22/world/europe/poland-pollution.html 
Title 	Coal Warms Poland's Hearths, and Fouls Its Skies: [Foreign Desk] 
Author 	Nabrdalik, Maciek; Santora, Marc 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.4 
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Apr 23, 2018  
column  Zar Mountain Journal  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2028810140  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2028810140?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Apr 23, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-12  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 138 of 236 



What America Looks Like in 10,000 Years: [Op-Ed] 
Strauss, Benjamin; Clark, Peter; Kulp, Scott.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]22 Apr 2018: SR.2. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=What+America+Looks+Like+in+10%2C000+Years%3A+%5BOp­Ed%5D&title=New+York+Times&issn=03624331&date=2018-04­22&volume=&issue=&spage=SR.2&au=Strauss%2C+Benjamin%3BClark%2C+Peter%3BKulp%2C+Scott&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
What would happen if the current growth trend in greenhouse gas emissions continues for the rest of this century before reversing? It's a question worth pondering, especially with a president who has vowed to quit the Paris climate accord and is aggressively promoting the use of coal, gas and oil. 
Our research with colleagues indicates that one consequence would be an unrelenting rise of the oceans for 10,000 years, ultimately reaching more than 170 feet above present levels, with half of that increase occurring in the next thousand years. 
The map of the world would be redrawn. As Antarctica and Greenland lost nearly all of their ice, vast portions of the United States, some more than 100 miles inland, would be inundated. 
We're hopeful that the 2015 Paris climate deal will slow emissions, and there are signs that this happening, though efforts to meet its goals are falling behind. Even if the world's nations manage to limit warming to near 2 degrees Celsius above preindustrial levels -- the accord's main target -- seas will continue to rise, 80 feet over 10,000 years, according to our modeling. 
We are at a historic moment, and we have the science to recognize it. Because climate-warming carbon dioxide persists in the atmosphere for thousands of years, how we deal with this problem today will have profound effects long after we are gone. 
Try this quiz: Match the choices, below left, to the landforms, which is all that will remain of these coastal states if oceans rise by a global average of more than 170 feet. 
Answers on Page 9 
AuthorAffiliation 
Benjamin Strauss is the chief scientist at Climate Central, where Scott Kulp is a scientist. Peter Clark is a professor of earth, ocean and atmospheric sciences at Oregon State University.Jasmine C. Lee and Anjali Singhvi are graphics editors for The New York Times. Bill Marsh is a graphics editor for the Sunday Review section of The New York Times. 
Graph 
ICS: The 26 current (and future) coastal states: Alabama Alaska Arkansas California Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Mississippi New Hampshire New Jersey New York North Carolina Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina Texas Vermont Virginia Washington (Source: Analysis by Climate Central) (SR2); Answers to the Future Flooding Quiz: Under a projection that shows seas rising more than 170 feet in 10,000 years, the East Coast would retreat far inland, its great cities transformed into a string of modern Atlantises. Low-lying West Coast cities would share the same fate. So would those of every other seaboard nation. Sixteen states other than the ones shown here, plus the nation's capital, would also be severely damaged. Two that are now landlocked, Arkansas and Vermont, would become, in effect, coastal. Arkansas would lose 15 percent of its landmass; Lake Champlain in Vermont would become an inland sea connected to the Atlantic Ocean by a greatly swollen St. Lawrence River. The costs to critical wildlife habitat would also be severe. One example: Alaska's vast Yukon Delta National Wildlife Refuge, larger than Maine, would mostly disappear. (GRAPHICS BY JASMINE C. LEE; ANJALI SINGHVI; BILL MARSH) (SR9) Copyright New York Times Company Apr 22, 2018 
Subject 	Global warming; 
Greenhouse gases; 
Paris Agreement; 

Emissions; 

Coasts 


Location 	United States--US 
Title 	What America Looks Like in 10,000 Years: [Op-Ed] 
Author 	Strauss, Benjamin; Clark, Peter; Kulp, Scott 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages  SR.2  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Apr 22, 2018  
Section  SR  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  2028386450  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2028386450?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Apr 22, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-12  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 139 of 236 



The Pruitt Inquiries: Expenses, Emails and a Phone Booth: [National Desk] 
Friedman, Lisa.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]22 Apr 2018: A.19. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=The+Pruitt+Inquiries%3A+Expenses%2C+Emails+and+a+Phone+Booth%3A+% 04-22&volume=&issue=&spage=A.19&au=Friedman%2C+Lisa&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
The Environmental Protection Agency's inspector general plans to investigate whether Scott Pruitt, the agency's embattled chief, acted improperly when he used an E.P.A. security detail for personal trips to the Rose Bowl, Disneyland and basketball games, among other places. 
The latest probe brings the number of investigations into Mr. Pruitt's use of taxpayer money and possible ethics violations to 10. 
The allegations were reported to the E.P.A.'s independent investigator in March by Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, who has said that he based his report on information he 
obtained confidentially from an E.P.A. employee. 

In response to the investigation, Jahan Wilcox, an E.P.A. spokesman, said in a statement that "Administrator Pruitt follows the same security protocol whether he's in his 

personal or official capacity." Mr. Wilcox said this week that Mr. Pruitt remained focused on his job in the face of the questions about his work. 
Also this week, the Government Accountability Office, the watchdog arm of Congress, found that the E.P.A. broke the law when it spent $43,000 on a secure phone booth for Mr. 
Pruitt. And the director of the White House Office of Management and Budget also told Congress that he intended to examine Mr. Pruitt's spending habits. 

Here is a guide to these and other investigations. 
Travel Expenses 
The E.P.A.'s office of the inspector general, an independent investigating unit within the agency, opened an inquiry last summer into Mr. Pruitt's frequent travel home to 

Oklahoma. 
Early reports found Mr. Pruitt had spent 43 out of 92 days either in the his home state or traveling to or from there between March and May of 2017, at a cost of $12,000 to 

taxpayers. That inquiry has since been expanded twice: once to include Mr. Pruitt's use of private and military flights, including to Oklahoma, and later to incorporate a four-day trip Mr. Pruitt took to Morocco in December. Lawmakers have argued that the Morocco trip, during which Mr. Pruitt promoted natural gas exports, was inappropriate since the E.P.A. plays no formal role in overseeing gas 
exports. The trip cost about $40,000, according to agency records, with the flights alone costing $17,000. 
Meetings With Industry 
The E.P.A. inspector general also has taken up an inquiry into a meeting Mr. Pruitt held with the National Mining Association. 
Representative Frank Pallone, the top Democrat on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, requested the investigation after a report that Mr. Pruitt had encouraged the 

coal mining industry group to urge President Trump to withdraw from the Paris climate change agreement. Critics of the meeting said the discussion violated anti-lobbying laws for government officials. 
Both the E.P.A. and the industry group have denied that Mr. Pruitt did anything improper. 
Meanwhile, the G.A.O. is investigating Mr. Pallone's complaint about a National Cattleman's Beef Association video in which Mr. Pruitt appears. In the video, produced by the 
lobbying organization last year, Mr. Pruitt describes his opposition to an Obama-era clean water rule. 

Mr. Pallone and others asked auditors to investigate whether there the promotional video involved an inappropriate use of taxpayer dollars. 
Spending on Security 
There are a number of lines of inquiry into Mr. Pruitt's 24-hour security detail. 
His security staff of at least 20 people is more than three times as large as ones for previous E.P.A. administrators. Agency officials have confirmed that the E.P.A. has spent 

about $3 million in taxpayer money so far on salary, overtime and travel expenses for the security team. 
As of Thursday, three inspector general investigations had been launched into Mr. Pruitt's security expenses. In addition, there is a House Oversight Committee investigation. 

The newest allegations being taken up by investigators are whether Mr. Pruitt improperly used his security detail for personal travel to Disneyland and to a Rose Bowl game, as well as other destinations. Senator Whitehouse, a Rhode Island Democrat, told the E.P.A. inspector general that he had been made aware of the trips "after obtaining six weeks of schedules and other documents" that detailed the travel. 
Among other things, investigators are examining the role that Pasquale Perrotta, who heads Mr. Pruitt's security, played in agency spending. Mr. Perrotta, who is widely known as Nino, has not responded to requests for comment. Investigators are also looking into E.P.A. purchases of thousands of dollars in bulletproof vests and weapons, and the purchase of a $43,000 secure phone booth in violation of spending rules. 
Office Upgrades 
The G.A.O. has already ruled that Mr. Pruitt's purchase of a secure phone booth broke the law. 
Specifically, auditors found, the E.P.A. was required to notify Congress about purchases larger than $5,000 for office renovations and that the agency also violated the Antideficiency Act, which is designed to prevent unbudgeted spending. 
But the inquiries aren't over. House and Senate Democrats have asked Mr. Pruitt to respond to allegations by Kevin Chmielewski, the former E.P.A. deputy chief of staff, that the administrator also exceeded the office-spending limit with art on loan from the Smithsonian Institution and the framing of an American flag. 
Pay Raises for Aides 
On Monday, the E.P.A. inspector general issued what is expected to be the first part of an ongoing investigation into the use of a provision of a clean drinking water law to hire ex-lobbyists and give raises to political aides. 
Initial documents made public this week show that Mr. Pruitt's chief of staff, Ryan Jackson, signed off on substantial pay raises for two aides who previously had worked for Mr. Pruitt in Oklahoma. Two Democratic senators have asked the G.A.O. to investigate the raises as well, though that inquiry is pending the full outcome of the inspector general's report, aides said. 
The $50-a-Night Condo 
The House Oversight Committee wants to know more about Mr. Pruitt's living arrangements last year. 
The E.P.A. has acknowledged that Mr. Pruitt paid $50 per night to live in a condo co-owned by the wife of an energy lobbyist, J. Steven Hart, who has had business in front of the agency. 
The E.P.A. produced a memo from the agency's ethics office saying that Mr. Pruitt's living arrangements did not violate federal gift rules because the rate was withing "reasonable market value." However, the ethics office later walked back that assessment with a new memo saying that its staff did not have all the facts before issuing its ethics clearance. 
That prompted the federal government's top ethics official to take the unusual step of sending a letter to the E.P.A. asking the agency to take "appropriate actions to address any violations." 
The E.P.A. has said that Mr. Pruitt's decisions were not based on his connection to Mr. Hart, who until Friday was the chairman at the firm Williams & Jensen. The E.P.A. has also said that Mr. Hart did not lobby the agency while Mr. Pruitt was living in the condo. 
However, federal lobbying disclosures show that Mr. Hart did seek assistance from E.P.A. in 2017, during the period when Mr. Pruitt was renting from Mr. Hart's wife. Mr. Hart had approached the E.P.A. on behalf of the philanthropic arm of Smithfield Foods regarding a program to restore the Chesapeake Bay. 
Mr. Hart on Friday resigned from his firm, according to an email he sent to colleagues and obtained by The New York Times. The E.P.A. did not immediately respond to a request for comment. A spokesman for Mr. Hart declined to comment. 
Science Advisory Boards 
Amid the questions surrounding Mr. Pruitt's travel and spending decisions, there is one investigation on an entirely different issue: His selection process for members of a science advisory committee. 
Specifically, the G.A.O. accepted a request from two Democratic senators to look into the E.P.A.'s dismissal of scientists from agency boards that advise on health and scientific matters. The G.A.O. has said it will look into the role that political appointees at the E.P.A. had in choosing a new roster of advisers, which drew largely from industry and state regulatory bodies rather than university researchers. 
Undisclosed Email Addresses 
Lastly, in recent days, a watchdog group alerted lawmakers that Mr. Pruitt had two undisclosed government-issued email addresses in addition to two that were known. 
Democrats have demanded an investigation by the inspector general, although one has not been opened. 
Separately, Senator John Barrasso, Republican of Wyoming, has chided Mr. Pruitt, and has asked him to explain his email use. "During your confirmation hearing, I specifically asked you to 'refrain from taking any action -- that makes it difficult or impossible for the public to access your official written communications under the Freedom of Information Act,"' Mr. Barrasso wrote to the administrator. 
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 
Copyright New York Times Company Apr 22, 2018 
Subject 	Government agencies; 
Investigations; 
Government spending; 
Raises; 
Mismanagement; 
Travel; 
Political ethics; 

Lobbying; Security personnel 
Location  United States--US  
People  Trump, Donald J; Perrotta, Pasquale; Pruitt, Scott  
Company / organization  Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS: 924110;  
Name: Government Accountability Office  
NAICS: 921130  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/18/climate/scott-pruitt-epa-investigations-guide.html  
Title  The Pruitt Inquiries: Expenses, Emails and a Phone Booth: [National Desk]  
Author  Friedman, Lisa  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.19  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Apr 22, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2028386444  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2028386444?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Apr 22, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-12  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 140 of 236 


Scott Pruitt, Man of Little Shame: [Editorial] 
New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]18 Apr 2018: A.22. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Scott+Pruitt%2C+Man+of+Little+Shame%3A+%5BEditorial%5D&title=New+ 04-18&volume=&issue=&spage=A.22&au=&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Despite stiff competition, Scott Pruitt, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, is by common consensus the worst of the ideologues and mediocrities President Trump chose to populate his cabinet. Policies aside -- and they're terrible, from an environmental perspective -- Mr. Pruitt's self-aggrandizing and borderline thuggish behavior has disgraced his office and demoralized his employees. We opposed his nomination because he had spent his career as attorney general of Oklahoma suing the federal department he was being asked to lead on behalf of industries he was being asked to regulate. As it turns out, Mr. Pruitt is not just an industry lap dog but also an arrogant and vengeful bully and small-time grifter, bent on chiseling the taxpayer to suit his lifestyle and warm his ego. 
Any other president would have fired him. Mr. Trump praises him. "Scott is doing a great job!" the president tweeted on April 7. He agrees with Mr. Pruitt on policy -- indeed, many of the administrator's worst moves have been responses to Mr. Trump's orders. And -- no small chiseler in his own right -- Mr. Trump seems to care not a whit about Mr. Pruitt's mounting ethical problems, which have lately reached a point where Mr. Trump's chief of staff, John Kelly, has reportedly told the president that he should think seriously about letting Mr. Pruitt go. 
These problems began innocently enough, with the revelation last year that Mr. Pruitt had ordered up a $43,000 soundproof phone booth for his office so that his employees could not overhear him. The nonpartisan Government Accountability Office said Monday that the purchase violated the law because the E.P.A. had not notified Congress before incurring the expense. But what seemed like early onset executive paranoia quickly metastasized. Citing security concerns, Mr. Pruitt insisted on flying first class, against government custom, and when possible on Delta Air Lines (not the federal government's contract carrier), so that he could accumulate frequent-flier miles. He asked his staff to schedule trips back to Oklahoma so he could spend weekends at his home there. "Find me something to do," he said, according to evidence presented to Congress by Kevin Chmielewski, who was the E.P.A.'s deputy chief of staff until he was forced to resign after raising objections to Mr. Pruitt's excesses. Mr. Pruitt used his own security detail and hired private security guards during a trip to Italy -- at a cost of $30,000 -- when embassy guards were available free. 
In addition, he tripled the size of his security detail, also at taxpayer expense. He ordered bodyguard coverage 24 hours a day. He insisted on flashing lights and sirens to take him to the airport and to restaurants, a perk customarily reserved for the president and vice president. He rented a room at $50 a night, well below market rates, in a Washington condominium co-owned by the wife of an energy lobbyist with business before Mr. Pruitt's agency. 
He didn't get everything he and his team wanted: a bulletproof sport utility vehicle, for instance, equipped with special tires designed to keep moving even when hit by gunfire; a $100,000-a-month contract to fly on private jets. But heaven help the E.P.A. staff members bold enough to challenge these demands. The Times reported this month that five agency officials -- including Mr. Chmielewski -- who objected to Mr. Pruitt's costly requests and security upgrades were dismissed, reassigned or demoted. 
One frequently overlooked truth about Mr. Pruitt amid these complaints is that for all his swagger he has actually accomplished very little in terms of actual policy -- a wholly desirable outcome, from our standpoint. While hailed as the administration's foremost champion of deregulation, he has yet to kill or even roll back any significant regulations that were in place when Mr. Trump came to office. (The Obama administration's important Clean Power Plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from power plants had already been blocked by the courts.) He has delayed a few rules, but even these delays have been overturned or challenged. Most of his actions are in the proposal stage, and many will not be finalized for years, if ever. 
That does not mean Mr. Pruitt has been without baleful influence. He helped spearhead the effort to get Mr. Trump to withdraw the United States from the Paris agreement on climate change, a major insult to every other nation on earth, all of which have agreed to limit planet-warming greenhouse gases. 
By endless repetition, he has reinforced in the public mind the lie that Republicans have peddled for years and Mr. Trump's minions peddle now, that environmental rules kill jobs, that limiting carbon dioxide emissions will damage the economy, that the way forward lies not in technology and renewable energy but in digging more coal and punching more holes in the ground in search of oil. And, on the human level, he has been in the forefront of the administration's shameless effort to delude the nation's frightened coal miners into thinking coal is coming back, when any comeback is unlikely not because of regulation but because of strong market forces favoring natural gas and renewables. 
Should Mr. Pruitt choose to depart -- even some Republicans are complaining about his behavior -- or by some miracle should Mr. Trump fire him, the administration's appalling environmental policies are unlikely to change. The recently confirmed deputy administrator, Andrew Wheeler, is a former coal industry lobbyist who shares Mr. Pruitt's deregulatory zeal and fealty to the fossil fuels industry. Mr. Wheeler was for many years chief of staff for James Inhofe, an Oklahoma Republican and long the Senate's most determined denier of the accepted science on global warming. 
So far as is known, however, Mr. Wheeler, a Washington insider, has no lust for bulletproof S.U.V.s or other trappings of power. Such modesty by itself can only lift the moral tone of a once-noble office that Mr. Pruitt has besmirched. 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 
Credit: THE EDITORIAL BOARD 

Photograph 
(PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM BRENNER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) DRAWING (DRAWING BY MIKE MCQUADE) Copyright New York Times Company Apr 18, 2018 
Subject  Cabinet;  
Regulatory agencies;  
Editorials;  
Presidents;  
Lobbyists;  
Environmental policy;  
Emissions;  
Climate change  
Location  United States--US  
People  Trump, Donald J; Pruitt, Scott  
Company / organization  Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS: 924110  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/17/opinion/scott-pruitt-ridiculous.html  
Title  Scott Pruitt, Man of Little Shame: [Editorial]  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.22  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Apr 18, 2018  
column  Editorial  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  2026285883  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2026285883?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Apr 18, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-09  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 141 of 236 


Earth, Wind And Liars: [Commentary] 
Krugman, Paul.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]17 Apr 2018: A.27. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Earth%2C+Wind+And+Liars%3A+%5BCommentary%5D&title=New+York+Ti 04-17&volume=&issue=&spage=A.27&au=Krugman%2C+Paul&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Peter Thiel, Facebook investor and Donald Trump supporter, is by all accounts a terrible person. He did, however, come up with one classic line about the disappointments of modern technology: "We wanted flying cars, instead we got 140 characters." O.K., now it's 280, but who's counting? 
The point of his quip was that while we've found ever more clever ways of pushing around bits of information, we are still living in a material world -- and our command of that material world has advanced much less than most people expected a few decades ago. Where are the technologies transforming the way we deal with physical reality? 
Well, there is one area of physical technology, renewable energy, in which we really are seeing that kind of progress -- progress that can both change the world and save it. Unfortunately, the people Thiel supports are trying to stop that progress from happening. 
Not that long ago, calls for a move to wind and solar power were widely perceived as impractical if not hippie-dippy silly. Some of that contempt lingers; my sense is that many politicians and some businesspeople still think of renewable energy as marginal, still imagine that real men burn stuff and serious people focus on good old-fashioned fossil fuels. 
But the truth is nearly the opposite, certainly when it comes to electricity generation. Believers in the primacy of fossil fuels, coal in particular, are now technological dead-enders; they, not foolish leftists, are our modern Luddites. Unfortunately, they can still do a lot of damage. 
About the technology: As recently as 2010, it still consistently cost more to generate electricity from sun and wind than from fossil fuels. But that gap has already been eliminated, and this is just the beginning. Widespread use of renewable energy is still a new thing, which means that even without major technological breakthroughs we can expect to see big further cost reductions as industries move "down the learning curve" -- that is, find better and cheaper ways to operate as they accumulate experience. 
Recently David Roberts at Vox.com offered a very good example: wind turbines. Windmills have been around for more than a thousand years, and they've been used to generate electricity since the late 19th century. But making turbines really efficient requires making them very big and tall -- tall enough to exploit the faster, steadier winds that blow at higher altitudes. 
And that's what businesses are learning to do, via a series of incremental improvements -- better design, better materials, better locations (offshore is where it's at). So what we'll be seeing in a few years will be 850-foot turbines that totally outcompete fossil fuels on cost. 
To paraphrase the science-fiction writer William Gibson, the renewable energy future is already pretty much here; it's just not very evenly distributed. 
True, there are issues of intermittency remaining -- the wind doesn't always blow, the sun doesn't always shine -- although batteries and other energy storage technologies are also making rapid progress. There are also some energy uses, especially transportation, where fossil fuels retain a significant advantage in cost and convenience. And exactly how we're going to have carbon-neutral air travel is still, well, up in the air. 
But there is no longer any reason to believe that it would be hard to drastically "decarbonize" the economy. Indeed, there is no reason to believe that doing so would impose any significant economic cost. The realistic debate is about how hard it will be to get from 80 to 100 percent decarbonization. 
For now, however, the problem isn't technology -- it's politics. 
The fossil fuel sector may represent a technological dead end, but it still has a lot of money and power. Lately it has been putting almost all of that money and power behind Republicans. For example, in the 2016 election cycle the coal mining industry gave 97 percent (!) of its contributions to G.O.P. candidates. 
What the industry got in return for that money wasn't just a president who talks nonsense about bringing back coal jobs and an administration that rejects the science of climate change. It got an Environmental Protection Agency head who's trying to suppress evidence on the damage pollution causes, and a secretary of energy who tried, unsuccessfully so far, to force natural gas and renewables to subsidize coal and nuclear plants. 
In the long run, these tactics probably won't stop the transition to renewable energy, and even the villains of this story probably realize that. Their goal is, instead, to slow things down, so they can extract as much profit as possible from their existing investments. 
Unfortunately, this really is a case of "in the long run we are all dead." Every year that we delay, the clean-energy transition will sicken or kill thousands while increasing the risk of climate catastrophe. 
The point is that Trump and company aren't just trying to move us backward on social issues; they're also trying to block technological progress. And the price of their obstructionism will be high. 
Follow me on Twitter (@PaulKrugman) and Facebook. 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. Copyright New York Times Company Apr 17, 2018 
Subject  Technological change;  
Wind power;  
Solar energy;  
Alternative energy;  
Renewable resources;  
Fossil fuels;  
Coal  
Location  United States--US  
People  Trump, Donald J  
Company / organization  Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS: 924110  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/16/opinion/trump-energy-environment.html  
Title  Earth, Wind And Liars: [Commentary]  
Author  Krugman, Paul  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.27  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Apr 17, 2018  
column  Op-Ed Columnist  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  2025610546  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2025610546?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Apr 17, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-09  

Database Global Newsstream 
document 142 of 236 


Washington Insider and Former Coal Lobbyist Becomes E.P.A. Deputy Chief: [National Desk] 
Davenport, Coral.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]13 Apr 2018: A.16. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Washington+Insider+and+Former+Coal+Lobbyist+Becomes+E.P.A.+Deputy+Ch 04-13&volume=&issue=&spage=A.16&au=Davenport%2C+Coral&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- The Senate on Thursday confirmed the Environmental Protection Agency's second-in-command, Andrew Wheeler, a former coal lobbyist who not only shares the deregulatory zeal of Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. chief, but also his doubtful view of climate science. 
More notable, however, are the differences between the two men. 
Unlike Mr. Pruitt, a Washington outsider caught in a swirl of controversy over his costly first-class travel and security spending, Mr. Wheeler is viewed as a low-key insider with years of Washington experience in the art of pursuing policy change while avoiding public distraction. 
Deregulation is among President Trump's central campaign promises, and Mr. Pruitt has proposed ambitious rollbacks of rules governing clean air and water and fighting against climate change. But many of his initiatives have stumbled because of haste or imprecision, and at least six have been struck down by the courts. That makes the arrival of Mr. Wheeler's expertise particularly consequential. 
In fact, on Thursday Mr. Trump also sent new marching orders to the E.P.A., directing the agency to weaken or delay implementation of a variety of air pollution regulations, several of which have been priorities for industries for which Mr. Wheeler has lobbied in the past. 
Among other things, the proposals would reverse an Obama-era policy of forcing federally designed pollution restriction plans on states that fail to meet national standards for reducing soot, smog, and nitrogen oxide. They would also allow states that fail to meet clean air standards not to comply with regulations if they attribute the dirtier air to pollution that drifted from Asia. 
Mr. Pruitt, in a statement, said, "This memorandum helps ensure that E.P.A. carries out its core mission, while reducing regulatory burdens for domestic manufacturing." 
Mr. Pruitt is currently facing an array of ethics questions accompanied by calls for him to step down or be replaced. If Mr. Pruitt were to leave the agency, Mr. Wheeler would become the acting administrator. Former E.P.A. officials describe him as well positioned to pursue Mr. Trump's agenda as effectively as Mr. Pruitt, or even more so, by moving more slowly but in ways likelier to withstand legal challenge. 
Democrats have long sought to delay Mr. Wheeler's confirmation. "He's part of the climate denial fringe, he's a coal lobbyist and there's a possibility he'll be running the agency if Scott Pruitt goes down," said Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, Democrat of Rhode Island, who has emerged as one of Congress' loudest proponents of climate change policy. 
Mr. Wheeler's supporters -- among them Senator James Inhofe, one of the most vocal climate-science denialists in Congress -- welcomed his arrival at the E.P.A. "Andy Wheeler is the most competent and qualified person for the job he's been asked to fulfill," Mr. Inhofe said. "Anyone who sat through his confirmation hearing would tell you he did a masterful job." 
Mr. Wheeler worked for Mr. Inhofe as chief of staff for more than a dozen years on Capitol Hill. He also worked at the E.P.A. in the office of pollution prevention during the administration of the first President George Bush. Most recently, he lobbied for Murray Energy, whose chief executive, Robert E. Murray, has been a supporter and adviser of Mr. Trump's. 
A few weeks after Mr. Trump's inauguration, Mr. Murray, who contributed $300,000 to Mr. Trump's inauguration fund, presented the president with a wish list of regulations that he wanted to see lifted from the coal industry. Mr. Trump then assigned Mr. Pruitt to roll back those rules. 
Jack Gerard, the head of the American Petroleum Institute, which lobbies for oil companies, said in a statement, "Andrew Wheeler knows the important role that natural gas and oil plays in the daily life of every American and will work to further a smarter, science-based regulatory agenda." 
In 2010, Mr. Wheeler criticized the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the world's leading scientific authority on global warming, writing in a blog post that it has "has functioned more as a political body than a scientific body." 
In terms of environmental policy, Mr. Wheeler is expected to bring continuity to the controversial tenure of Mr. Pruitt, the former Oklahoma attorney general who built his career suing the E.P.A. and who, and as head of the agency, led an aggressive push to roll back dozens of environmental regulations. Mr. Pruitt has become known for staging prominent media events to announce his proposals and has spent taxpayer money on first class travel as well as services that his predecessors did not require, such as a 24­hour security detail. 
By contrast, Mr. Wheeler, who has worked in Washington for more than 20 years, tends to eschew the limelight, his colleagues said. His career was built around quietly and incrementally advancing the interests of the fossil fuel industry, chiefly by weakening or delaying federal regulations. 
Should Mr. Pruitt part ways with the E.P.A., it is unlikely that the Senate would confirm a successor this year, even if Mr. Trump were to nominate one quickly. "They're not going to get anyone else through the Senate until after this election cycle," said Christine Todd Whitman, who headed the E.P.A. during the George W. Bush administration. "The acting administrator doesn't have the same authority as the administrator, but they can do an awful lot." 
Nevertheless, Senate Democrats this week had sought to use Mr. Pruitt's troubles as a political lever to further delay Mr. Wheeler's confirmation vote, arguing that he should be subject to the same scrutiny and vetting as a cabinet secretary. 
"The problem with the Wheeler nomination is, if Pruitt goes tomorrow, Wheeler is in fact the administrator," said Senator Tom Udall, Democrat of New Mexico, earlier in the week before the confirmation vote took place. "What I'm going to ask is that he go through a vetting process similar to taking over the Environmental Protection Agency. And we hope we can get some Republican support on that." 
That proposal, of course, met with no success in the current Republican-dominated Congress. Mr. Wheeler was confirmed Thursday afternoon by the Senate in a 53-to-45 vote. 
One E.P.A. official, along with one White House official, said that once Mr. Wheeler starts his new job, they expect the pressure to remove Mr. Pruitt to increase. Both spoke anonymously because they were not authorized to discuss internal White House deliberations on the record. On the other hand, Mr. Pruitt clearly has received support from the White House in recent days, most significantly the president. 
Mr. Wheeler's arrival as the E.P.A.'s second-in-command could come as a welcome change to some agency staffers who have grown weary of defending their boss's controversial decisions, according to an E.P.A. official who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
"He's a careful, studious person. A quiet fellow," said Scott Segal, a fossil fuel lobbyist who has worked closely with Mr. Wheeler. "He knows the agency very, very well." 
Mr. Wheeler will be joining a cadre of fellow former staffers for Mr. Inhofe, including Mr. Pruitt's current chief of staff, Ryan Jackson. Mr. Inhofe has long been a political patron of Mr. Pruitt's. And Mr. Pruitt is widely thought to be considering running for Mr. Inhofe's seat, should the 83-year-old senator retire. 
Mr. Pruitt's current troubles, and his evident interest in Mr. Inhofe's job, have irritated some of Mr. Inhofe's allies. But the Oklahoma senator continues to stand by his protégé. 
"This was bound to happen, because he's doing his job," Mr. Inhofe said. "They've been after him from the very beginning. They're making him as miserable as they could." 
Mr. Inhofe acknowledged that, with Mr. Wheeler's arrival, his influence is likely to grow as former staffers fill the senior ranks at an agency he has often criticized. "They're all good people," he said. "I trained them well." 

Photograph 
The Senate confirmed the appointment of Andrew Wheeler, who is experienced in the art of pursuing policy change. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX EDELMAN/DPA, VIA ALAMY) Copyright New York Times Company Apr 13, 2018 
Subject 	Air pollution; 

Presidents; 
Lobbyists; 

Outdoor air quality; 
Environmental policy; 
Climate change; 
Fossil fuels; 
Environmental protection; 
User groups; 

Coal 


Location 	Asia; New Mexico; Rhode Island; Oklahoma 
People 	Trump, Donald J; Inhofe, James M; Whitman, Christine Todd; Whitehouse, Sheldon; 

Udall, Tom; Bush, George W; Pruitt, Scott; Wheeler, Andrew 


Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 

NAICS: 924110; 

Name: United Nations--UN NAICS: 928120; 
Name: Congress 

NAICS: 921120; 

Name: American Petroleum Institute NAICS: 541820, 813910; 
Name: Senate 

NAICS: 921120; 

Name: Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change NAICS: 541712, 928120 
URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/12/climate/epa-pruitt-deputy-wheeler-confirmation.html 
Title  Washington Insider and Former Coal Lobbyist Becomes E.P.A. Deputy Chief: [National Desk]  
Author  Davenport, Coral  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.16  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Apr 13, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2024312490  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2024312490?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Apr 13, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-09  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 143 of 236 


Plan to Track Methane Leaks From Above: [National Desk] 
Schwartz, John.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]12 Apr 2018: A.23. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Plan+to+Track+Methane+Leaks+From+Above%3A+%5BNational+Desk%5D&tit 04-12&volume=&issue=&spage=A.23&au=Schwartz%2C+John&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Tom Ingersoll, a longtime satellite entrepreneur, admits being startled by a call he received last year: A nonprofit foundation wanted to build a satellite and launch it into orbit to help fight climate change. "I thought, 'Wow, that's kind of crazy."' 
In February, he signed on as the project's manager, after having taken a long look at the technologies required. "It's hard, but we could probably pull it off," he said. 
Now the rest of the world can decide for itself. On Wednesday, Fred Krupp, the president of the Environmental Defense Fund, announced plans for MethaneSAT, an orbital eye in the sky that could monitor industrial methane leaks all over the planet. 
Methane remains one of the thorniest climate problems. It is the major component of natural gas, which produces half the carbon dioxide of coal when burned to run electric plants. But when methane leaks, it is a potent greenhouse gas that traps more than 80 times as much heat as carbon dioxide in its first 20 years in the atmosphere. By some estimates, human-caused emissions of methane are thought to be responsible for about a quarter of the warming being experienced today. 
But figuring out where methane emissions are coming from is a major challenge. The colorless, odorless gas has proved difficult to measure at the source of leaks without nearby access to the sites. Early attempts by the Environmental Protection Agency to determine the scope of the problem significantly underestimated emissions. 
Methane leaks are relatively inexpensive to fix, and stopping leaks allows energy companies to sell more gas. The International Energy Agency has estimated that as much as 50 percent of the 84 million tons of methane emitted by the oil and gas industry every year -- from leaky wells and pipes and other causes -- "can be mitigated at no net cost, because the value of the captured methane could cover the abatement measures." 
The Environmental Defense Fund has worked for many years on methane issues; it organized a five-year, $20 million research effort into leaks in the United States across the production and supply network. That research, which helped the E.P.A. adjust its national emissions estimates, involved local measurements from ground instruments and airplane flyovers. But such methods are not always feasible -- or welcomed -- in other countries. 
To address the problem of finding leaks around the world, a recent report from the National Academy of Sciences called for methane monitoring from space, where international access is not a problem. "Satellite measurements are critical," said David T. Allen, a professor of chemical engineering at the University of Texas who served on the committee that wrote the report. "Right now satellite measurements are one area in which we have very limited information." 
Some government-launched science satellites do monitor methane, but their instruments lack the resolution to pinpoint sources on the ground. Some commercial ventures also detect methane from space, but their data is proprietary. 
MethaneSAT, by comparison, is designed to detect emissions across the planet with sufficiently high resolution to identify sources. The organization plans to make the data publicly available so that companies, policymakers and regulators can take action. 
Identifying major sources of leaks could help governments and industry coalitions work together to address the problem, said Daniel J. Jacob, a professor of atmospheric chemistry and environmental engineering at Harvard. "How can you do climate policy for methane if you don't know where the sources are?" he said. 
Mr. Krupp, the Environmental Defense Fund president, is announcing the initiative at the TED2018 conference in Vancouver, British Columbia. His organization has already obtained most of the "tens of millions of dollars" that building the satellite and launching it should cost, Mr. Krupp said in an interview. Much of the early money came from the Robertson Foundation, which has environmental work as part of its focus. The launch is planned for late 2020 or early 2021. 
Space is a tough neighborhood; timetables slip and challenges proliferate. But the "new space" movement has helped move orbital launches out of the realm of superpowers and put it within the reach of businesses and nonprofits. 
"I think this is entirely feasible," said Peter Platzer, the chief executive of Spire Global, a satellite company, who was not involved with the MethaneSAT project but has talked with members of the team extensively. 
The environmental group is also working with Steven C. Wofsy, a professor of atmospheric and environmental science at Harvard, and his colleagues to address the daunting technology challenge of creating an infrared spectrometer that can detect methane plumes on the Earth's surface. 
The lead scientist for a major methane-detecting satellite program applauded the idea. Ilse Aben, a senior scientist at the Netherlands Institute for Space Research, presented the first data this week from a European satellite launched in October with an instrument that can detect methane, but at lower spatial resolution. She said the Environmental Defense Fund's plan was "really complementary to what we have now." 
Mr. Ingersoll, MethaneSAT's project manager, said that some of the technologies to be incorporated into the satellite had been developed for defense purposes, so "it's fun to see this technology broaden, and bring potentially very beneficial applications to society." 
Discussions and research on the project began in 2015, Mr. Krupp said, as a way to extend his group's methane monitoring beyond North America. Since the 2016 election, the Trump administration and the E.P.A. administrator, Scott Pruitt, have tried to roll back Obama-era rules intended to crack down on leaks. 
"We now see an added urgency that this satellite will give us data from the United States -- much of it won't be available any other way, given the actions that Pruitt has taken," Mr. Krupp said. "We can't wait for Washington, especially not now." 
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 
Copyright New York Times Company Apr 12, 2018 
Subject 	Emissions; 

Defense; 
Environmental policy; 
Energy industry; 

Climate change; 
Natural gas 


Location 	Netherlands; United States--US; North America; Vancouver British Columbia Canada 
People 	Krupp, Fred; Pruitt, Scott 
Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Defense Fund 

NAICS: 541720, 813312; 


Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA NAICS: 924110; 
Name: Robertson Foundation NAICS: 813211; 
Name: University of Texas NAICS: 611310; 
Name: International Energy Agency NAICS: 541720, 926130, 928120; 
Name: National Academy of Sciences NAICS: 541711; 
Name: Netherlands Institute for Space Research NAICS: 927110 
URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/11/climate/methane-monitoring-satellite.html 
Title 	Plan to Track Methane Leaks From Above: [National Desk] 
Author 	Schwartz, John 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.23 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Apr 12, 2018 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2023873915  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2023873915?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Apr 12, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-09  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 144 of 236 


In Rush to Kill Obama Rules, Pruitt Puts His Agenda at Risk: [National Desk] 
Davenport, Coral; Friedman, Lisa.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]08 Apr 2018: A.16. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=In+Rush+to+Kill+Obama+Rules%2C+Pruitt+Puts+His+Agenda+at+Risk%3A+% 04-08&volume=&issue=&spage=A.16&au=Davenport%2C+Coral%3BFriedman%2C+Lisa&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- As ethical questions threaten the Environmental Protection Agency administrator, Scott Pruitt, President Trump has defended him with a persuasive conservative argument: Mr. Pruitt is doing a great job at what he was hired to do, roll back regulations. 
But legal experts and White House officials say that in Mr. Pruitt's haste to undo government rules and in his eagerness to hold high-profile political events promoting his agenda, he has often been less than rigorous in following important procedures, leading to poorly crafted legal efforts that risk being struck down in court. 
The result, they say, is that the rollbacks, intended to fulfill one of the president's central campaign pledges, may ultimately be undercut or reversed. 
"In their rush to get things done, they're failing to dot their i's and cross their t's. And they're starting to stumble over a lot of trip wires," said Richard Lazarus, a professor of environmental law at Harvard. "They're producing a lot of short, poorly crafted rulemakings that are not likely to hold up in court." 
Six of Mr. Pruitt's efforts to delay or roll back Obama-era regulations -- on issues including pesticides, lead paint and renewable-fuel requirements -- have been struck down by the courts. Mr. Pruitt also backed down on a proposal to delay implementing smog regulations and another to withdraw a regulation on mercury pollution. 
The courts, for instance, found that the E.P.A. had ignored clear legal statutes when they ruled that Mr. Pruitt had illegally delayed a regulation curbing methane emissions from new oil and gas wells and that the agency had broken the law by missing a deadline last year to enact ozone restrictions. 
In other cases -- including one in which a federal court ordered the E.P.A. to act on a Connecticut request to reduce pollution from a Pennsylvania power plant, and one where judges demanded quick action from the agency on new lead paint standards -- the courts warned Mr. Pruitt that avoiding enacting regulations already on the books was an inappropriate effort to repeal a rule without justifying the action. 
"The E.P.A. has a clear duty to act," a panel of judges of the San Francisco-based Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit wrote in a 2-1 decision finding that the agency must revise its lead paint standards in 90 days, as regulations required. The agency had tried to delay the revisions for six years. 
In an interview on Friday, the White House spokeswoman, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, said that Mr. Trump felt that Mr. Pruitt had done a satisfactory job at the EPA. Her comments suggested that Mr. Pruitt's work checking off items on the president's agenda -- including rolling back a large number of environmental protections -- may weigh heavily as a counterbalance to the ethics questions related to his travel expenses, management practices and his rental of a living space from the wife of a prominent lobbyist. 
Describing Mr. Trump's view of Mr. Pruitt, she said: "He likes the work product." 
Liz Bowman, an E.P.A. spokeswoman, disputed the criticisms of the agency's work. "E.P.A. does its due diligence, consults with O.M.B. and other federal agencies to ensure that its work is legally defensible," she said in an email, referring to the Office of Management and Budget, the office that coordinates and evaluates policy across the executive branch. 
One of the chief examples cited by Mr. Pruitt's critics came this week when the E.P.A. filed its legal justification for what is arguably the largest rollback of an environmental rule in the Trump administration: the proposed undoing of an Obama-era regulation aimed at cutting pollution of planet-warming greenhouse gases from vehicle tailpipes. 
Mr. Pruitt made his case for the rollback in a 38-page document filed on Tuesday that, experts say, was devoid of the kind of supporting legal, scientific and technical data that courts have shown they expect to see when considering challenges to regulatory changes. 
"There's an incredible lack of numbers," said James McCargar, a former senior policy analyst at the E.P.A. who worked on vehicle emissions programs and remains in close touch with career staffers who work on those programs. "If this gets challenged in court, I just don't see how they provide anything that gives a technical justification to undo the rule." 
The rules Mr. Pruitt is targeting would require automakers to nearly double the average fuel economy of passenger vehicles to 54.5 miles per gallon by 2025. Automakers have argued the rule is onerous, forcing them to invest heavily in building hybrid and electric vehicles. 
As part of the process, Mr. Pruitt filed the 38-page document, which is meant to supply the government's legal justification for rolling back the rule. About half the document consists of quotations from automakers laying out their objections to the rule. By comparison, the Obama administration's 1,217-page document justifying its implementation of the regulation included technical, scientific and economic analyses justifying the rule. 
Experts in environmental policy said the lack of analytical arguments in this week's E.P.A. filing surprised them. "This document is unprecedented," said Mr. McCargar, the former 
E.P.A. senior policy analyst. "The E.P.A. has just never done anything like this." 
John M. DeCicco, a professor of engineering and public policy at the University of Michigan Energy Institute, said the filing was a departure from the practices of previous Republican and Democratic administrations. 
"A president or an administrator or somebody can't just say, 'I'm going to change the rule,' without justifying it very, very carefully," Mr. DeCicco said. "As a scientist who's worked on these issues, I'm saying, where are the numbers? Where's the data?" 
Most of the document consists of arguments quoting directly from public comments made by automaker lobbyists, the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers and the Global Automakers, that the pollution rules will be unduly burdensome on the auto industry, as well as public comments from Toyota, Fiat Chrysler, Mercedes-Benz and Mitsubishi. 
While it does include arguments opposing the regulatory rollback from groups including the Union of Concerned Scientists and the state of California, it does not contain what environmental experts say is the critical element of a legally strong justification for changing an E.P.A. regulation: Technical analysis of both sides of the argument leading to a conclusion aimed at persuading a judge that the change is defensible. 
Seth Michaels, a spokesman for the Union of Concerned Scientists, suggested that, in its reuse of arguments by the automakers' lobby, the emissions-rollback document echoed Mr. Pruitt's modus operandi when he was the Oklahoma Attorney General. 
"It's reminiscent of the 2011 letter Scott Pruitt sent as Oklahoma AG to the E.P.A., in which he took a letter drafted by lawyers for Devon Energy and stuck his name on it with minimal edits," Mr. Michaels said. 
A 2014 investigation by The Times found that lobbyists for Devon Energy, an Oklahoma oil and gas company, drafted letters for Mr. Pruitt to send to the E.P.A., the Interior Department, the Office of Management and Budget and President Obama, outlining the economic hardship of various environmental rules. 
Between 2011 and 2017, Mr. Pruitt filed suit against the E.P.A. 14 times, and lost almost all of the cases. 
Most were filed in conjunction with the Republican attorneys general of a dozen or more other states, making it difficult to know precisely which legal arguments his office contributed, legal experts said. Mr. Pruitt frequently took a lead role in the cases. 
In the end, "a lot of those arguments were losers," said Richard L. Revesz, an expert in environmental law at New York University. 
In particular, Mr. Revesz noted a case brought by the group against President Obama's signature climate change regulation, the Clean Power Plan, which Mr. Pruitt is now working to overturn from within the E.P.A. The lawsuit challenged a draft proposal of the regulation, which was an unprecedented move that a federal court quickly struck down, saying that they could not legally challenge a draft. 
While the attorneys general, including Mr. Pruitt, garnered media attention for the case, "The argument they had was ludicrous," Mr. Revesz said. 
The group did, however, score one major victory: After the Obama administration issued its final version of the Clean Power Plan, it successfully petitioned the Supreme Court to temporarily halt implementation of the rule. 
Since taking the helm of E.P.A., Mr. Pruitt has barnstormed the country, meeting with farmers, coal miners and local leaders and promising an end to his predecessor's regulatory approach. He also has favored closed-door policy speeches to conservative think tanks, like the Heritage Foundation, to roll out policy initiatives. 
The Heritage Foundation was the venue Mr. Pruitt chose this year to say that he would make changes to how scientific studies are considered at the agency. Both critics and supporters of Mr. Pruitt said that, by making the proposal in a political fashion rather than changing the rules in a quieter but potentially more lasting way means that changes like these are more vulnerable to being undone by a future administration. 
Environmental groups have welcomed Mr. Pruitt's court losses. Joanne Spalding, chief climate counsel for the Sierra Club, said she was pleased by what she called "sloppy" and "careless" E.P.A. legal work. "It's fine with us," she said. "Do a bad job repealing these things, because then we get to go to court and win." 
Thomas J. Pyle, a supporter of Mr. Pruitt's and the president of the Institute for Energy Research, a think tank that promotes fossil fuels, described that as spin. "The environmental left portrays Scott Pruitt as a devil incarnate in their fund-raising solicitations, yet brag about how ineffective he is in dismantling Obama's climate rules," he said. "Which is it?" 
Still, some conservatives said they were worried that Mr. Pruitt was more interested in media attention than policy and feared more legal losses. "If the goal is to generate temporary relief and to make a splash, then what they're doing is terrifically fine," said Jonathan H. Adler, director of the Center for Business Law & Regulation at Case Western Reserve University School of Law. 
But if the Trump administration wants to permanently change the regulatory environment for business, he said, the E.P.A. cannot take such a "quick and dirty approach" to unraveling regulations. "I'm suspicious that two, three years down the road there's going to be much to show for all the fireworks we're getting now," Mr. Adler said. 
Follow @NYTClimate on Twitter 
Credit: CORAL DAVENPORT and LISA FRIEDMAN; Katie Rogers contributed reporting. 
Photograph 
Scott Pruitt, head of the Envi- ronmental Protection Agency, has favored closed-door policy speeches to conservative think tanks to roll out initiatives. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARNIK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) Copyright New York Times Company Apr 8, 2018 
Subject 	Regulatory agencies; 

Automobile industry; 

Energy efficiency; 
Presidents; 
Lead content; 
Regulation; 
Climate change; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Vehicles; 

Mercury pollution 


People 	Pruitt, Scott Company / organization Name: Heritage Foundation NAICS: 541720; 
Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA NAICS: 924110 
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/07/climate/scott-pruitt-epa-rollbacks.html  
Title  In Rush to Kill Obama Rules, Pruitt Puts His Agenda at Risk: [National Desk]  
Author  Davenport, Coral; Friedman, Lisa  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.16  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Apr 8, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2022776918  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2022776918?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Apr 8, 2018  
Last updated  2019-04-25  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 145 of 236 



Polluters On the High Seas: [Commentary] 
Heine, Hilda; Figueres, Christiana.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]07 Apr 2018: A.19. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Polluters+On+the+High+Seas%3A+%5BCommentary%5D&title=New+York+ 04-07&volume=&issue=&spage=A.19&au=Heine%2C+Hilda%3BFigueres%2C+Christiana&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
International shipping is the backbone of our global trading system. But it can no longer be given a free pass on climate change. If this industrial sector were a country, it would be the sixth-largest emitter of greenhouse gases in the world -- and if it doesn't act now to reduce those emissions, by 2050 they could surpass total anticipated European emissions. 
The International Maritime Organization, which sets regulatory standards for international shipping, is set to meet in London next week to consider approaches to reducing these emissions. So far, progress by the I.M.O. has been agonizingly slow, and the group's timetable -- to develop an "initial strategy" next week and a plan by 2023 -- is similarly dilatory. 
If the I.M.O. does not take action quickly, there is no hope of keeping the global temperature increase below the tipping points set by the Paris climate agreement. This is only possible if emissions peak by 2020 and decline rapidly thereafter. Every industrial sector, as well as country, must play its part in reaching the goal. And international shipping is the last big sector regulated by the United Nations to act. 
Unfortunately, some countries that advocate the merits of climate action elsewhere are not singing from the same song sheet at the I.M.O., where talks are already underway. 
The good news is that this is actually an important economic opportunity for international shipping if it wants to remain the cheapest low-carbon option for our global supply chain. Certainty about emissions standards is necessary to encourage the right kind of investment now. As Alistair Marsh, the chief executive of Lloyd's Register, which provides consulting services to the shipping industry, said recently, "The later we leave decarbonization, the more disruptive it will be for shipping." 
Fortunately, solutions exist. A 2009 study by the I.M.O. found that "a significant potential" for reducing emissions "through technical and operational measures has been identified." Those measures, according to the study, "could increase efficiency and reduce the emissions rate by 25 percent to 75 percent below the current levels. Many of these measures appear to be cost-effective." But impediments, including "costs, a lack of incentives and other barriers, prevent many of them from being adopted," the report added. 
The Marshall Islands first proposed an industrywide target to curb shipping's rising emissions in the lead-up to the 2015 Paris climate conference. The Marshall Islands may be a tiny, climate-vulnerable nation of low-lying islands and atolls threatened by rising seas, but it also hosts the world's second-largest shipping registry and is almost entirely reliant on sea transportation for food and other crucial supplies. Given all this, perhaps no country is better placed to highlight the need to act, and to do so in a way that is economically sustainable. 
In Paris, the Marshall Islands went on to form a High Ambition Coalition of progressive countries that was pivotal to securing the final agreement. That coalition is mobilizing once again, with the Pacific Island nations, the Caribbean, Latin American countries, Europe and others already working together to ensure a similarly strong outcome next week. While the Marshall Islands may be one of the countries most at risk from climate change, no country will be safe. 
With this in mind, nearly 50 countries have already joined the Tony de Brum Declaration, which has called for urgent action to reduce the shipping industry's emissions. The declaration, sponsored by the Marshall Islands and President Emmanuel Macron of France at the One Planet Summit in Paris last December, is named in honor of our friend, the former foreign minister of the Marshall Islands and a champion of the Paris Agreement, who died last year. 
Countries truly committed to climate action will not accept anything less than a strong deal next week. But despite efforts by the I.M.O.'s secretary general, Kitack Lim, tackling shipping emissions still remains far down in the political in-tray of too many countries. 
We need to change that, and change it quickly. Delaying action until 2023, as some have suggested, is waiting too long. In 2016 the world agreed on a similar deal to regulate aviation emissions, as well as the Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol, which will phase down planet-warming refrigerants. And recent initiatives to tackle coal and to boost electric vehicles are showing that the economy is shifting much faster to reducing greenhouse gas emissions than many thought possible. 
To achieve the goals of the Paris Agreement and to avoid the most devastating impacts of climate change across the globe, we cannot forget about international shipping. The world needs to take notice. 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 
AuthorAffiliation 
Hilda Heine is the president of the Republic of the Marshall Islands. Christiana Figueres is the former executive secretary of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Copyright New York Times Company Apr 7, 2018 
Subject  Emissions; Paris Agreement; Climate change; Shipping industry  
Location  Montreal Quebec Canada; New York; Marshall Islands; France; Europe  
People  de Brum, Tony; Macron, Emmanuel; Figueres, Christiana  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  New York Times Co 511110, 511120, 515112, 515120;  
Name: NAICS:  United Nations--UN 928120;  
Name: NAICS:  Twitter Inc 519130;  
Name: NAICS:  International Maritime Organization 926120;  
Name: NAICS:  United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change 928120;  
Name: NAICS:  Facebook Inc 518210, 519130  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/06/opinion/greenhouse-gases-international-shipping.html  
Title  Polluters On the High Seas: [Commentary]  
Author  Heine, Hilda; Figueres, Christiana  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.19  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Apr 7, 2018  
column  Op-Ed Contributors  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  2022484911  

Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2022484911?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Apr 7, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-09  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 146 of 236 



Use of Solar Power Grows, But Only to 12% Globally: [Foreign Desk] 
Sengupta, Somini.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]06 Apr 2018: A.7. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Use+of+Solar+Power+Grows%2C+But+Only+to+12%25+Globally%3A+%5BFo 04-06&volume=&issue=&spage=A.7&au=Sengupta%2C+Somini&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
UNITED NATIONS -- Solar panels are everywhere: perched on thatched roofs in rural Kenya, helping Indian farmers pump groundwater for their fields, and powering United States military bases. 
Solar power accounted for more than a third of all net new power capacity added worldwide in 2017, a larger share than any other new source, the United Nations Environment Program said in a report issued Thursday. And solar power is becoming much more affordable. The cost of electricity from large-scale solar projects has dropped by 72 percent since 2009, according to the study. 
But even as solar and its renewable energy cousins -- like wind, biomass and geothermal power; but not counting big hydropower projects -- expand, they still account for barely 12 percent of all the electricity that the world consumes. The greatest share still comes from fossil fuels like coal, and more coal-fired power plants continue to be built, contributing to the greenhouse gas emissions that have warmed the planet to dangerous levels. 
"This shows where we are heading," said Nils Stieglitz, a professor at the Frankfurt School of Finance & Management, which produced the report along with Bloomberg New Energy Finance. "The fact that renewables altogether are still far from providing the majority of electricity means that we still have a long way to go." 
The world leader in investing in renewables, by far, is China. The country accounted for nearly half of all renewable energy investments worldwide, pumping $86.5 billion into solar energy alone in 2017 in what the report described as "an extraordinary solar boom." 
China has cut back significantly on coal at home, though it has continued to fund and build coal-fired power plants abroad. One of the most closely watched is a proposed plant on the coast of Kenya, near the ancient island town of Lamu, a Unesco world heritage site. 
The United States also plays a leading role in developing solar power. It is historically the largest emitter of greenhouse gases, though, and its investments in renewables went down slightly in 2017, according to the report, to $40.5 billion. 
That decline coincides with President Trump's first year in office, a steady rollback in environmental protections and the announced pullout of the United States from the Paris climate agreement. Few countries are even close to meeting the targets they set under the Paris agreement, according to independent analyses. 
European investment in renewables fell in 2017, according to the report, in large part, its authors said, because of Britain, which has moved to end subsidies for wind and solar projects. 
That pointed to a looming challenge for the renewables industry: whether it can grow without government subsidies. "Many projects will have to sink or swim without any government-backed price support," the report said. 
Renewables grew most significantly in 2017 where the demand for electricity also grew. The report found that developing economies accounted for 63 percent of global investment in renewable energy in 2017, up from 54 percent the year before. All told, 157 gigawatts of renewable power came online in 2017, more than double the 70 gigawatts generated from new fossil fuel sources. 
The United Nations secretary general, António Guterres, has called climate change the biggest threat to humanity. 
Copyright New York Times Company Apr 6, 2018 
Subject 	Coal-fired power plants; 
Solar energy; 
Alternative energy sources; 

Renewable resources; 
Subsidies 


Location 	China; United States--US; Kenya; United Kingdom--UK 
People 	Trump, Donald J Company / organization Name: United Nations--UN NAICS: 928120; 
Name: United Nations Environment Programme NAICS: 813312, 928120 
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/05/climate/solar-energy.html  
Title  Use of Solar Power Grows, But Only to 12% Globally: [Foreign Desk]  
Author  Sengupta, Somini  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.7  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Apr 6, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2022080184  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2022080184?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Apr 6, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-09  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 147 of 236 


Officials at E.P.A. Raised Concerns And Were Ousted: [National Desk] 
Lipton, Eric; Vogel, Kenneth P; Friedman, Lisa.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]06 Apr 2018: A.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Officials+at+E.P.A.+Raised+Concerns+And+Were+Ousted%3A+%5BNational+D 04­06&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Lipton%2C+Eric%3BVogel%2C+Kenneth+P%3BFriedman%2C+Lisa&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:do 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- At least five officials at the Environmental Protection Agency, four of them high-ranking, were reassigned or demoted, or requested new jobs in the past year after they raised concerns about the spending and management of the agency's administrator, Scott Pruitt. 
The concerns included unusually large spending on office furniture and first-class travel, as well as certain demands by Mr. Pruitt for security coverage, such as requests for a bulletproof vehicle and an expanded 20-person protective detail, according to people who worked for or with the E.P.A. and have direct knowledge of the situation. 
Mr. Pruitt bristled when the officials -- four career E.P.A. employees and one Trump administration political appointee -- confronted him, said the people, who were not authorized to speak publicly. 
The political appointee, Kevin Chmielewski, was placed on administrative leave without pay, according to two of the people with knowledge of the situation. Mr. Chmielewski was among the first employees of Donald J. Trump's presidential campaign, serving as a senior advance official. The two people, who are administration officials, said that Mr. Chmielewski flagged some of his concerns about Mr. Pruitt directly to the White House's presidential personnel office. 
Two of the career officials, Reginald E. Allen and Eric Weese, were moved to jobs where they had less say in spending decisions and less interaction with Mr. Pruitt, the people said. A third career official, John E. Reeder, joined American University as a temporary "executive in residence" after being told by the E.P.A. to find a new job. And John C. Martin, who served on the security detail, was also removed from the team and had his gun and badge taken away after raising concerns about how Mr. Pruitt's security was being handled. 
A sixth official, Mr. Pruitt's chief of staff, Ryan Jackson, also raised questions about Mr. Pruitt's spending, according to three E.P.A. officials. He remains in his job but is considering resigning, agency officials said. Mr. Jackson came to the agency from the office of Senator James M. Inhofe, Republican of Oklahoma, who like Mr. Pruitt had been a major critic of regulatory moves made under President Barack Obama, and is a prominent climate change skeptic. 
Approval was required by the staff officials for certain of Mr. Pruitt's expenditures, and Mr. Allen, Mr. Chmielewski, Mr. Jackson and Mr. Reeder at various points each voiced concerns to Mr. Pruitt directly about his spending, according to the two administration officials. 
Neither Mr. Jackson nor any of the five officials who left or were removed after questioning Mr. Pruitt would comment when contacted by The New York Times. Before their reassignments or removals, Mr. Weese was the head of Mr. Pruitt's protective detail, and Mr. Reeder, Mr. Allen and Mr. Chmielewski each served as deputy chief of staff. 
The White House declined to comment on Thursday, referring questions to the E.P.A., though President Trump, as he boarded Air Force One, said he had confidence in Mr. Pruitt. 
And in speaking to reporters on the plane, he described Mr. Pruitt as "very courageous," while suggesting he was reviewing the complaints about him. "I'll make that determination," Mr. Trump said. "But he's a good man, he's done a terrific job. But I'll take a look at it." 
The E.P.A. challenged the assertion that the reassignments were related to objections to spending and other management issues. "We dispute the veracity of the accusations," said Jahan Wilcox, a spokesman for the agency. 
The staff tumult comes to light as Mr. Pruitt's stewardship of the agency is under mounting scrutiny. He is the subject of an investigation by the E.P.A.'s inspector general, who is examining some of the spending and security issues. The White House confirmed on Wednesday that it was conducting its own examination. 
Tensions Rise, Morale Sinks 
Several current and former E.P.A. employees said morale at the agency had suffered as they watched the friction play out between Mr. Pruitt and the officials. Christopher Zarba, a career E.P.A. employee who retired in February after leading the agency's scientific advisory boards, said it was well known in the office that Mr. Allen had been sidelined for challenging Mr. Pruitt. 
"Brilliant, a natural leader, an off-the-charts-talented guy," Mr. Zarba said of Mr. Allen. "He had to push back on Pruitt on some of the trip and office modification expenses to keep everything legal, and we speculated he might have been removed for that reason." 
A senior political appointee, who came to the agency with the Trump administration and works on policy issues, offered a defense of Mr. Chmielewski: "Kevin is one of the most upstanding public servants and nicest all-around people. Just because he stood up to what was clearly a bad idea, they are trying to sabotage the poor guy's reputation." 
Mr. Pruitt declined to be interviewed for this article, but he has spoken with conservative media organizations. In those interviews, he has cried foul about a flurry of media reports about his regular first-class travel, his use of an obscure administrative provision to increase the salaries of two favored aides (over White House objections) and his below-market rental agreement for accommodations in Washington with the wife of an energy lobbyist whose clients won favorable treatment from the E.P.A. 
The disclosures, he has suggested, were the handiwork of critics who were resorting to personal attacks to derail the deregulatory agenda being pursued by his agency and the Trump administration. Since taking the administrator's job in February 2017, Mr. Pruitt has advanced one of the administration's most aggressive regulatory rollbacks, including regulations intended to tighten rules related to coal-burning power plants, oil and gas drilling, auto and truck air emissions, and pesticides. 
Yet the revelations about his staff turnover, which have not been previously reported, demonstrate that concerns about his spending and leadership resonated within his own team well before they became the subject of media reports and investigations by the E.P.A. inspector general and the White House. 
Agency records obtained through open-records requests show the critical role that Mr. Allen, Mr. Chmielewski and Mr. Reeder played in reviewing Mr. Pruitt's travel plans. In some instances, several agency officials said, pushback by the officials prevailed. 
For instance, in a conversation with one of Mr. Pruitt's closest aides, Mr. Chmielewski sharply objected to a proposal to buy a $100,000-a-month charter aircraft membership that would have allowed Mr. Pruitt to take unlimited private jet trips for official business, according to two administration officials. The membership was not purchased. 
Mr. Chmielewski also objected to a proposal to spend about $70,000 to replace two desks in Mr. Pruitt's office suite, including his personal desk and one at a security station outside his office. Asked about the proposed desk purchases, Mr. Wilcox, the E.P.A. spokesman, said that "the administrator never considered the proposal." Pasquale Perrotta, who became head of Mr. Pruitt's security detail after Mr. Weese was removed, insisted that the security desk be upgraded to a bulletproof model, according to current and former E.P.A. employees with direct knowledge of the discussions. 
The bulletproof security desk was not purchased, but two new desks were ordered for Mr. Pruitt's personal office: a brown maple wood stand-up desk, with brass locks, that was purchased from a craftsman and an oversize desk with ornate woodworking that had been in a federal government warehouse in Virginia and was refurbished for Mr. Pruitt at a cost of $2,075. E.P.A. employees gawked at the size and grandeur of Mr. Pruitt's refurbished desk, with some comparing it to the Resolute Desk in the Oval Office, officials said in interviews. 
Still, Mr. Pruitt and his team obtained many of the perks he wanted. Staff members questioned, but nonetheless approved, frequent trips that routed Mr. Pruitt through hub airports that allowed him to spend weekends at his home in Oklahoma. The administrator also had charter flights approved after they were already taken, the public records show. 
"This memorandum responds to your request for written approval for the Administrator and three EPA employees to use a charter service to fly from Denver to Durango, CO on August 4, 2017," read a memo written in late August, after the trip was completed. The approval covered a charter flight to tour the Gold King Mine near Silverton, Colo., after Mr. Pruitt's commercial flight to Denver was delayed. This 40-minute flight cost $5,719, the records show. 
Other memos released through the open-records law show that Mr. Allen handled requests for renovations to Mr. Pruitt's office. "I spoke to Gayle and we can proceed as it is not part of the $5,000," read an email to Mr. Allen in April 2017, as staff members were being pressed to find a way to spend more on office renovations than was allowed under federal guidelines. In this case, the expenditure involved a biometric lock and was not counted against Mr. Pruitt's furniture budget. "Approved," Mr. Allen wrote back. 
The documents do not reflect the behind-the-scenes friction between Mr. Pruitt and the senior officials, but several agency staff members said in interviews that they avoided putting objections into writing because they suspected there would ultimately be an investigation into the matters. 
Mr. Weese, the security official, questioned Mr. Pruitt's desire to use flashing lights and sirens in his motorcade -- a perk more commonly associated with the presidency -­according to three of the people who worked with or for the E.P.A. 
Mr. Pruitt, who often ran late, wanted to use the lights and sirens to expedite local trips in Washington to the airport or to dinner, including at least one trip to Le Diplomate, a trendy French restaurant that he frequented. Such use was not consistent with agency policy, but Mr. Weese was unsuccessful in stopping it. 
The agency said Mr. Pruitt played no role in deciding when the sirens and lights would be used. "The security detail for the past 15 years has used them in very limited fashion," Mr. Wilcox said. 
Mr. Weese was also reluctant to sign off on requests for Mr. Pruitt to travel in first class based on security concerns. Mr. Allen, Mr. Chmielewski and Mr. Reeder, too, questioned the use of taxpayer money to pay for first-class airfare. Only after Mr. Weese was replaced by Mr. Perrotta did Mr. Pruitt regularly fly first class, agency staff members said. 
There were also questions raised about a request that Mr. Pruitt be issued a bulletproof sport utility vehicle with so-called run flat tires, which keep a vehicle moving even when sustaining gunfire. And they challenged Mr. Pruitt's expanded security detail of approximately 20 members, three times the size of his predecessor's. Unlike his most recent counterpart under Mr. Obama, Gina McCarthy, Mr. Pruitt has security officials follow him wherever he travels, and also stay on duty overnight. 
"He wanted to be treated like he was the president," said David Schnare, a prominent conservative lawyer and climate change skeptic, who served on the Trump administration transition team at the E.P.A., after an earlier 30-year stint at the agency that started in the late 1970s. 
Mr. Wilcox, the agency spokesman, said the larger security team was justified, given threats against Mr. Pruitt. "They run the variety of direct death threats -- 'I'm going to put a bullet in your brain' -- to implied threats -- 'If you don't classify this particular chemical in this particular way, I'm going to hurt you."' 
There was a particularly intense dispute over a request to construct a special security booth in Mr. Pruitt's office so he could have confidential conversations without being overheard by career agency employees, according to interviews and public documents first reported by The Washington Post. 
Mr. Chmielewski suggested converting a broom closet at a cost of about $10,000, one person who worked with the agency said. But Mr. Perrotta wanted a special chamber with sound-dampening privacy products and ceiling baffles that would prevent anyone from intercepting voice or data transmissions. The documents show that the final cost of the new chamber was close to $43,000. 
Mr. Perrotta also remains an executive at a private security firm, Sequoia Security Group, which separately received a contract from the E.P.A. to conduct a security sweep of Mr. Pruitt's office, a deal that is now the subject of an investigation by the agency's inspector general. He did not respond to a request for comment. 
A String of Departures 
The various challenges to Mr. Pruitt's spending and security priorities did not sit well with him, according to the people who worked with or for the E.P.A., and soon the offending aides were removed. 
Mr. Allen, a decorated 30-year retired Army officer, was transferred to a different office within the E.P.A., where he mostly works alone, according to two agency officials, one of whom described the setup as "an unmarked grave." 
Mr. Weese was transferred from the security detail to a more general position in the agency's criminal investigation division. 
Mr. Reeder remains an employee of the E.P.A. while on temporary leave to work at American University. He has been a senior executive at the agency since early in George W. Bush's presidency, but left for American University after many of his responsibilities were taken away from him. 
Mr. Martin, who served on Mr. Pruitt's security detail, raised concerns about Mr. Perrotta and matters related to Mr. Pruitt's security arrangements, such as the soundproof booth. He was then told he could no longer be part of the security detail, which he had been a part-time member of for more than a decade, according to two people with knowledge of the events. Mr. Martin became the target of an inquiry by the agency's inspector general, which ultimately cleared him of wrongdoing, according to documents reviewed by The Times. 
The removal of Mr. Chmielewski, the former Trump campaign official, proved more complicated. 
As a presidential appointee, Mr. Chmielewski was classified as a member of the senior executive service pay system, and remained in close contact with top aides to both Mr. Trump and Vice President Pence. 
Even while at the E.P.A., Mr. Chmielewski helped facilitate trips for Mr. Pence and sometimes traveled with him. And he had a personal connection with Mr. Trump, who had called him to the podium during a campaign rally in April 2016 in Maryland, where Mr. Chmielewski grew up. 
"Where the hell is Kevin?" Mr. Trump said at the event. "He's a star. Where is Kevin? Get Kevin up here." 
Some internal agency memos detailing Mr. Pruitt's travel plans list Mr. Chmielewski as the coordinator, and as the senior political appointee, he had to ensure that they were properly authorized. Privately, he urged Mr. Pruitt to rein in his spending, initially in person, and then through intermediaries when he got frozen out, according to the two administration officials. 
When Mr. Chmielewski returned from a trip to Asia with Mr. Pence in February, he was asked to resign and turn in his credentials. Mr. Pruitt's aides informed the White House that they were dissatisfied with Mr. Chmielewski's unresponsiveness during his travels, including a time when he could not be reached in Hawaii, where he was preparing for a visit by Mr. Pence. 
An anonymous complaint filed with the E.P.A.'s inspector general alleged that Mr. Chmielewski could not get the appropriate level of security clearance for his duties because of various indiscretions. After a brief investigation, the inspector general dismissed all the allegations in the complaint as unfounded, according to documents reviewed by The Times. 
Mr. Chmielewski told associates that he believed the complaints were an effort by Mr. Perrotta and others to discredit him. 
Separately, Mr. Chmielewski has been the subject of allegations that he was the source of leaks about Mr. Pruitt, and also that he was staying free in the same Capitol Hill home where Corey Lewandowski, Mr. Trump's first campaign manager, lives. Someone familiar with the arrangement acknowledged that Mr. Chmielewski, a longtime friend of Mr. Lewandowski, had slept at the home, but said it was only one night and on a couch. 
The crescendo of criticism of Mr. Pruitt has rallied his defenders, including the Tea Party Patriots and the Heritage Foundation, who in recent days have blasted out endorsements of his management of the agency on social media and in opinion columns. It has also empowered his critics, even from within his own Republican Party. 
William K. Reilly, who led the E.P.A. under President George Bush, called Mr. Pruitt a "third-rate ideologue" and said he was aware of staff members who had been sidelined at the agency for raising questions about Mr. Pruitt's spending. 
"I think he's well beyond his sell-by date," Mr. Reilly said. "Any administration but this one would have discharged him long ago." 
Photograph 
Scott Pruitt of the E.P.A. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AARON P. BERNSTEIN/GETTY IMAGES) (A1); E.P.A. employees pushed back about things like a proposal to spend about $70,000 to replace two desks in the office suite of its administrator, Scott Pruitt, center. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARNIK/ASSOCIATED PRESS); Kevin Chmielewski was put on leave without pay. In Washington, Mr. Pruitt lived in a property that was co-owned by the wife of an energy lobbyist. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DELAMARVANOW.COM; ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES) (A14) Copyright New York Times Company Apr 6, 2018 
Subject 	Regulatory agencies; 

Management; 
Lobbyists; 

Environmental protection; 
Leadership; 

Government spending; 
Critics 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Chmielewski, Kevin; Pruitt, Scott 
Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 

NAICS: 924110 


URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/05/business/epa-officials-questioned-scott-pruitt.html  
Title  Officials at E.P.A. Raised Concerns And Were Ousted: [National Desk]  
Author  Lipton, Eric; Vogel, Kenneth P; Friedman, Lisa  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  

Pages  A.1  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Apr 6, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2022031714  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2022031714?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Apr 6, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-09  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 148 of 236 



A Lobbyist, A Condo Deal, A Green Light: [National Desk] 
Lipton, Eric.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]03 Apr 2018: A.1. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=A+Lobbyist%2C+A+Condo+Deal%2C+A+Green+Light%3A+%5BNational+Desk 04-03&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Lipton%2C+Eric&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- The Environmental Protection Agency signed off last March on a Canadian energy company's pipeline-expansion plan at the same time that the E.P.A. chief, Scott Pruitt, was renting a condominium linked to the energy company's powerful Washington lobbying firm. 
Both the E.P.A. and the lobbying firm dispute that there was any connection between the agency's action and the condo rental, for which Mr. Pruitt was paying $50 a night. 
"Any attempt to draw that link is patently false," Liz Bowman, a spokeswoman for Mr. Pruitt, said in a written statement. 
Nevertheless, government ethics experts said that the correlation between the E.P.A.'s action and Mr. Pruitt's lease arrangement -- he was renting from the wife of the head of the lobbying firm Williams & Jensen -- illustrates why such ties to industry players can generate questions for public officials: Even if no specific favors were asked for or granted, it can create an appearance of a conflict. 
"Entering into this arrangement causes a reasonable person to question the integrity of the E.P.A. decision," said Don Fox, who served as general counsel of the Office of Government Ethics during parts of the Obama and George W. Bush administrations. 
The March 2017 action by the E.P.A. on the pipeline project -- in the form of a letter telling the State Department that the E.P.A. had no serious environmental objections -­meant that the project, an expansion of the Alberta Clipper line, had cleared a significant hurdle. The expansion, a project of Enbridge Inc., a Calgary-based energy company, would allow hundreds of thousands more barrels of oil a day to flow through this pipeline to the United States from Canadian tar sands. 
The signoff by the E.P.A. came even though the agency, at the end of the Obama administration, had moved to fine Enbridge $61 million in connection with a 2010 pipeline episode that sent hundreds of thousands of gallons of crude oil into the Kalamazoo River in Michigan and other waterways. The fine was the second-largest in the history of the Clean Water Act, behind the penalty imposed after the Deepwater Horizon spill in the Gulf of Mexico. 
A spokesman for Williams & Jensen said that the lobbying firm did not intervene with the E.P.A. or Mr. Pruitt on the Enbridge pipeline expansion either before or after Mr. Pruitt was living in the condo owned in part by Vicki Hart, the wife of J. Steven Hart, the chairman of the firm. 
The lobbying firm also said it had not worked on similar regulatory issues for Enbridge in the past year, even though it was registered at the time as lobbying for the company on "issues affecting pipelines and construction of new pipelines," its disclosure report from early 2017 says. 
Cynthia Giles, who served at the E.P.A. as an enforcement official in the agency's mid-Atlantic region in the 1990s before becoming an assistant administrator at the agency in the Obama administration, said Mr. Pruitt's housing arrangements raised questions about the fairness of the E.P.A.'s decision-making process. 
"The people at the E.P.A. are charged with following the science and facts as it applies to individual decisions," she said. Appearing to accept favors from influential figures "is just not good judgment." 
Ms. Bowman said the criticism was unjustified, saying that Mr. Pruitt paid what one E.P.A. official called a "market value" rent. However, an examination of Capitol Hill rentals suggests that rates typically are considerably higher and generally do not come with a provision, as Mr. Pruitt's did, that the renter can pay for only the nights stayed at the condo. 
The E.P.A.'s review of the Alberta Clipper project was one of at least a half dozen regulatory matters before the E.P.A. related to clients who were represented by Williams & Jensen at the time that Mr. Pruitt was living part-time in the Capitol Hill condo. 
Williams & Jensen, for example, was lobbying the E.P.A. early last year, according to its disclosure reports, on behalf of both Oklahoma Gas and Electric, a major coal-burning utility, and Concho Resources, a Texas-based oil and gas drilling company. 
The work for Oklahoma Gas involved the effort to repeal or revise the landmark Obama-era rule that pushed states to move away from coal in favor of sources of electricity that produce fewer carbon emissions. An E.P.A. calendar in March 2017 shows that Mr. Pruitt and his chief of staff were scheduled to meet with company executives at the request of a Williams & Jensen lobbyist. 
Brian Alford, a spokesman for Oklahoma Gas, said the company had received no favors from Mr. Pruitt. "By no means has O.G.E. benefited from any living arrangements for Administrator Pruitt," he said in a statement. "In fact, Administrator Pruitt did not attend the mentioned meeting." 
Concho, a 2017 lobbying disclosure report shows, hired Williams & Jensen to help it handle matters including "EPA regulatory proposals re: oil and gas operations." The company's regulatory filings indicate its concerns included the regulation of methane emissions (a major factor in climate change) from drilling and production operations, as well as rules intended to protect drinking water supplies. Mr. Pruitt has considered revisions in both regulatory areas. 
In the Enbridge case, the E.P.A. was asked to evaluate the potential environmental effect of the pipeline expansion application, as well as the quality of a preliminary review of the project that the State Department had already conducted. When the pipeline opened in 2010, it was permitted to carry only as much as 500,000 barrels of oil a day. The expansion would allow it to move an additional 390,000 barrels through a key three-mile section near the Canadian border. 
Michael Barnes, a spokesman for Enbridge, said the project deserved to be approved, noting the "vital service that this existing pipeline provides in delivering secure and reliable supplies of North American crude oil to the United States." 
The oil it carries comes from the so-called Canadian tar sands, like the oil for the proposed extension of the Keystone XL pipeline. Extraction from tar sands has drawn opposition from environmentalists, given that the process requires more energy than traditional drilling. 
Pipelines, like this one, that cross an international border into the United States require a presidential permit, which is issued only after the State Department has conducted a detailed environmental review and has taken input from other federal agencies, including the E.P.A. 
In this case, the pipeline expansion was further complicated by the fact that a related Enbridge pipeline involved in oil imports from Canada spilled nearly one million gallons of oil in Marshall, Mich., in July 2010 after tape intended to prevent corrosion on the pipeline failed. Investigators later found that employees allowed the oil to continue to flow after wrongly assuming that the alarms sounding were caused by a harmless vapor bubble. 
Enbridge has argued it has learned from that accident and taken corrective measures to prevent it from happening again. The settlement with the E.P.A. also requires the company to spend at least $110 million to install advanced leak detection and monitoring measures to prevent spills. 
In March 2017, while Mr. Pruitt's lease at the Washington condo was in effect, the E.P.A. issued a letter giving the pipeline project the second-best rating it offers out of 10 possible scores. The agency concluded that while the project raised "environmental concerns," the review had adequately examined the alternatives and determined that "no further analysis or data collection is necessary." 
If the E.P.A. had wanted to more aggressively challenge the project, the agency could have rated it as "environmental objections" or "environmentally unsatisfactory." 
The conclusion stands in contrast to a similar evaluation by the agency in 2013 of the Keystone XL pipeline project. That evaluation focused more on the effect that the flow of tar-sands oil could have on the goal of limiting global climate change and gave the project an "environmental objections" rating. 
With the signoff by the E.P.A. and the State Department, Enbridge received the expansion permit it needed in October, five years after it first applied for permission. Additional pumping stations have already been built, meaning the pipeline expansion project is already completed, the company said. 
Mr. Pruitt is separately the focus of an investigation by the E.P.A. inspector general, Arthur A. Elkins Jr., based on Mr. Pruitt's travel in early 2017 back to his home state of Oklahoma on government-funded flights, as well as his use of first-class tickets for flights and, at times, costly chartered planes. 
Discussions have already started on Capitol Hill about asking the E.P.A. inspector general to expand his inquiry to include the condo deal. Late Monday, three House Democrats who serve on the committee with oversight of the E.P.A. sent a letter to Mr. Pruitt asking a series of questions about the condo lease, which was first reported by ABC News. 
"As administrator you have taken a number of actions to benefit industries regulated by E.P.A.," the letter said. "And this news raises the possibility that you may have personally benefited from your relationship with industry." 

Photograph 
Scott Pruitt (A1); The site of an Enbridge pipeline in Kinosis, Alberta. The E.P.A., headed by Scott Pruitt, left, has signed off on a proposal to expand one of its lines. 
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK BLINCH/REUTERS; MICHAEL REYNOLDS/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (A13) 
Copyright New York Times Company Apr 3, 2018 

Subject 	Expansion; 

Regulatory agencies; 

Conflicts of interest; 
Lobbyists; 

Political ethics; 
Rentals; 

Energy industry; 

Lobbying; 

Climate change; 
Pipelines; 
Condominiums; 

Crude oil 


Location 	United States--US; Canada; Oklahoma 
People 	Pruitt, Scott 
Company / organization 	Name: Williams & Jensen 

NAICS: 541110; 

Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA NAICS: 924110 
URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/02/climate/epa-pruitt-pipeline-apartment.html 
Title 	A Lobbyist, A Condo Deal, A Green Light: [National Desk] 
Author  Lipton, Eric  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.1  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Apr 3, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2020663978  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2020663978?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Apr 3, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-09  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 149 of 236 


Fear and Disdain Grip Trump's E.P.A.: [Editorial] 
New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]01 Apr 2018: SR.8. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Fear+and+Disdain+Grip+Trump%27s+E.P.A.%3A+%5BEditorial%5D&title=N 04-01&volume=&issue=&spage=SR.8&au=&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
The other day, Scott Pruitt, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, took yet another step to muzzle the scientific inquiry that for years has informed sound policy at an agency he seems determined to destroy. He told his subordinates that they could no longer make policy on the basis of studies that included data from participants who were guaranteed confidentiality. Over the years, such studies have been crucial to establishing links between mortality and pollution, led to regulations and saved many lives. Limiting policymakers to only those studies with publicly available health data greatly narrows the field of research. 
This got us to searching again (we've been here before with Mr. Pruitt) for the word that best describes the Trump administration's hostility to scientific inquiry. "Disdain" jumps to mind. Fourteen months into his term, President Trump has yet to name a director of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, or any of the four associate directors authorized by Congress -- jobs that have provided presidents for decades with unbiased counsel. 
There's another word: Fear. From the top down, the people who run this government seem absolutely terrified of scientific inquiry and the ways in which it could threaten Mr. Trump's promise to ease regulations on fossil fuel companies and increase their profits, no matter the cost to public health and the planet. Think of it from Mr. Trump's point of view. Why would he want a science adviser telling him that the link between climate change and the burning of fossil fuels is incontrovertible, that he should stick with the Paris agreement on climate change, that it's a grave mistake to repudiate every one of President Obama's efforts to slow the dangerous warming of the earth's atmosphere? 
Far better to stick his head in the sand, ostrichlike; do that, and the need for policies regulating greenhouse gas emissions or dangerous pollutants like soot and mercury magically disappears. Which is certainly Mr. Pruitt's modus operandi. As Gina McCarthy, a former E.P.A. administrator, and her deputy for air quality, Janet McCabe, said in a recent Times Op-Ed: "Mr. Pruitt's goal is simple: No studies, no data, no rules." 
Mr. Pruitt has been averse to science and fact from Day 1. Last fall, he announced that scientists who receive or had received federal research grants would be barred from serving on the agency's nearly two dozen scientific advisory committees. The purpose, he said, was to eliminate conflicts of interest; the real purpose, it soon became clear, was to create vacancies that he could fill with industry experts and state officials pushing for lax regulations -- people whose own conflicts of interest would be left unexamined. As Andrew Rosenberg, director of the Center for Science and Democracy at the Union of Concerned Scientists noted at the time, Mr. Pruitt's claim that federal funding should exclude scientists from an E.P.A. advisory board while industry funding should not exclude them was on its face absurd. 
Though the E.P.A. is the epicenter of denial, avoiding inconvenient truths is common practice elsewhere in the administration. Last year, Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke reassigned Joel Clement, the department's director of policy analysis and top expert on the impact of climate change in the Arctic, to an accounting job (Mr. Clement resigned in protest). Mr. Zinke also ordered the National Academies of Science, Engineering and Medicine to cancel two studies that conflicted with the administration's goal of expanding domestic fossil fuel production. One was examining the health risks of people living near surface coal mining sites in Appalachia; the other sought ways of strengthening the department's oil and gas safety inspection program. 
Even the official vocabulary of global warming has changed, as if problems can be made to evaporate simply by describing them in more benign terms. At the Agriculture Department, for instance, staff members are encouraged to use terms like "weather extremes" instead of "climate change." Web pages about global warning have been removed, edited or buried throughout the government. Last week, lest there be any confusion in the hinterlands, E.P.A. staff members in regional offices received a list of talking points instructing them to tell people that "clear gaps remain including our understanding of the role of human activity" on global warming. This is vintage Pruitt: Sow doubt whenever possible about established science. 
Mr. Trump's economic advisers have reinforced this bias. His latest budget called for big funding cuts and in some cases elimination of programs aimed at protecting human health and building resilience against the effects of climate change -- among them the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's coastal research program and the Energy Department's energy efficiency and advanced technology programs. Congress wisely denied these cuts, thanks to hard work by Charles Schumer and Nancy Pelosi, the Democratic leaders of the Senate and House. Whether their efforts do anything to change the mind-set of Mr. Trump and his lieutenants remains to be seen. 
Mr. Pruitt is widely believed to be positioning himself for a run for governor in his home state, Oklahoma; he also seems to covet the attorney general's office, and, astoundingly, is said to harbor presidential ambitions. But he and Mr. Zinke are unlikely to go anywhere soon, and as long as they have the support of the denier in chief, we can expect more disrespect for science and its practitioners. 
Credit: THE EDITORIAL BOARD 

Illustration 
DRAWING (DRAWING BY JON HAN) 
Copyright New York Times Company Apr 1, 2018 

Subject  Editorials; Scientists; Science; Fossil fuels; Federal funding; Outdoor air quality; Environmental protection; Climate change  
Location  United States--US; Arctic region  
People  Trump, Donald J; Zinke, Ryan; Pruitt, Scott  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Union of Concerned Scientists 813920;  
Name: NAICS:  Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 924110;  
Name: NAICS:  National Academy of Sciences 541711;  
Name: NAICS:  National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration--NOAA 924120  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/31/opinion/pruitt-epa-assault-science.html  
Title  Fear and Disdain Grip Trump's E.P.A.: [Editorial]  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  SR.8  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Apr 1, 2018  
column  Editorial  
Section  SR  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  2020248775  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2020248775?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Apr 1, 2018  

Last updated 2018-11-09 
Database Global Newsstream 
document 150 of 236 


Wind Buffets Energy Landscape: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Penn, Ivan.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]29 Mar 2018: B.1. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Wind+Buffets+Energy+Landscape%3A+%5BBusiness%2FFinancial+Desk%5D&t 03-29&volume=&issue=&spage=B.1&au=Penn%2C+Ivan&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
As environmental concerns drive power companies away from using coal, natural gas has emerged as the nation's No. 1 power source. Plentiful and relatively inexpensive as a result of the nation's fracking boom, it has been portrayed as a bridge to an era in which alternative energy would take primacy. 
But technology and economics have carved a different, shorter pathway that has bypassed the broad need for some fossil-fuel plants. And that has put proponents of natural gas on the defensive. 
Some utility companies have scrapped plans for new natural-gas plants in favor of wind and solar sources that have become cheaper and easier to install. Existing gas plants are being shut because their economics are no longer attractive. And regulators are increasingly challenging the plans of companies determined to move forward with new natural-gas plants. 
"It's a very different world that we're arriving at very quickly," said Robert McCullough, an energy consultant in Portland, Ore. "That wind farm can literally be put on a train and brought online within a year. It is moving so fast that even critics of the old path like myself have been taken by surprise." 
The shifting dynamics are being seen in the Western states in particular -- driven not only by economics, but by regulation and climate as well. 
The Arizona Corporation Commission, which regulates the state's investor-owned utilities, recently refused to endorse plans by three power companies that included more natural-gas facilities. Commissioners directed them to make greater use of energy storage and plants that produce zero emissions. 
"It's very erratic what we're now doing with power," said Andrew M. Tobin, an Arizona commissioner who led efforts to block new gas plants. "I am so nervous that we will end up building a lot of capital plant that doesn't stand the test of time." 
Some feel the push to get beyond natural gas may be too much, too soon. Officials at Arizona Public Service, the largest utility in the state, said they needed to include new natural-gas development as part of an overall mix, partly because of the state's round-the-clock air-conditioning demands. 
"Our needs are different than other utilities," said Greg Bernosky, the utility's director of state regulation and compliance. "We need resources that can have a long duration when our load is high, well after the sun has set. Natural gas resources provide that flexibility." 
Nationwide, other utility executives, power producers and federal regulators have also argued that a healthy power grid requires consistent power, even when the sun doesn't shine or the wind ceases to blow. The more solar and wind power that is added to the electric grid, they say, the greater the need for reliable backup sources like natural gas. 
"Gas has got to be part of that equation," Robert F. Powelson, a commissioner on the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, recently told an energy conference. "The gas system has gotten extremely reliable." 
And he argued that even recent advances in storage did not justify an overreliance on alternative energy, however inexpensive. "Storage is great," said Mr. Powelson, a nominee of President Trump and a former chairman of the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission. "But that is not a reliable long-term solution to the energy markets." 
Natural gas isn't likely to be unseated as the country's primary source of electricity generation anytime soon. In fact, utility companies plan to add more natural-gas plants than any other source, including all alternative energy sources, like solar, wind and hydropower, combined. 
But the calculus is rapidly shifting as the prices of wind and solar power continue to fall. According to the Department of Energy, power generated by natural gas declined 7.7 percent in 2017. 
And the latest report by Lazard, the financial advisory and management firm, found that the cost of power from utility-scale solar farms was now on a par with natural-gas generation -- and that wind farms were less expensive still. 
Lazard calculated the unsubsidized cost of wind power at 3 cents a kilowatt-hour, while natural gas and solar energy were a little more than 4 cents. The typical American household pays 12.5 cents a kilowatt-hour for electricity, according to the United States Energy Information Administration. (The cost beyond generation reflects transmission, taxes, and other utility expenses and profits.) 
Moreover, the market equation in the West is driven largely by California, the sixth-largest economy in the world, which has mandated that 50 percent of its power be generated from renewable sources by 2030. With a regional energy market run by the state's electricity grid overseer, the California Independent System Operator, fossil-fuel plants have had increasing difficulty selling their power into a market with low-cost solar and wind power. 
At the same time, state legislatures and regulators are increasingly demanding that utilities rethink how they manage their systems to reduce carbon emissions. 
Some power producers have bristled at the mandates, even scaling back their operations in certain markets because, they said, it became too difficult to compete without losing money. 
NRG Energy, for example, announced this month that it would close three natural-gas plants in California because of the regulatory push for clean energy. 
After NRG's announcement, Calpine, a power company based in Houston, said it would suspend plans to build a natural-gas plant in California. 
"We cannot invest a single dollar in California," Thad Hill, Calpine's chief executive, said. "I would not call California a true competitive market." 
But a big Oregon utility, Portland General Electric, has embraced clean-energy mandates to ease it off dependence on fossil fuels. 
"First off for us, climate change is real and we have to diversify our mix," Dave Robertson, the company's vice president for public policy. "We're driving more and more toward a decarbonized future. We really feel like we've got to own that. It's really where the science is taking us." 
This month, Portland General entered into an agreement to buy surplus hydropower from the Bonneville Power Administration -- the surplus arises largely from California's turn to other renewable sources -- helping the utility avoid construction of natural-gas plants to replace a coal facility. 
"There are surpluses of energy that are looking for markets," said Brett Sims, Portland General's director of strategic planning and resource strategy. 
Portland General's view offered a hopeful message to environmentalists, who pushed for the weaning off coal and now have done much the same with natural gas. 
"It feels like déjà vu all over again for the electric sector," Mike Brune, executive director of the Sierra Club, said. "Utilities began to find that coal was not just a dirty form of energy but a more expensive form of energy, so they began to replace coal. Now, as they're looking to replace coal, they're finding gas in the same situation. There's a broad trend across the energy sector, mostly in the West, where coal and natural gas can't compete." 
Mr. McCullough, the Portland energy economist and principal at McCullough Research, said that the rapid change had caught many in the industry by surprise and that it could lead to a shorter future for natural gas. 
"I think the fact of the matter is we're seeing a lot of people realizing that there are different ways to go," Mr. McCullough said. 
Credit: IVAN PENN; Clifford Krauss contributed reporting. 

AuthorAffiliation 
Follow Ivan Penn on Twitter: @ivanlpenn 
Photograph 
A grid control center for Pacific Gas & Electric. Power companies, particularly in the West, are shifting away from fossil fuels. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICH PEDRONCELLI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B1); Some utility companies have scrapped plans to build natural-gas plants in favor of wind or solar farms, which are cheaper and easier to install. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BETH COLLER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) Copyright New York Times Company Mar 29, 2018 
Subject 	Regulation; 
Solar energy; 
Wind power; 

Fossil fuels; 
Utility rates; 
Electricity distribution; 
Public utilities; 
Hydraulic fracturing; 
Alternative energy sources; 

Natural gas utilities; 
Energy industry; 

Coal 


Location 	United States--US; Arizona 
People 	Trump, Donald J 
Company / organization 	Name: Calpine Corp 

NAICS: 221122, 221210; 


Name: Department of Energy NAICS: 926130; 
Name: Federal Energy Regulatory Commission--FERC NAICS: 926110, 926130; 
Name: Energy Information Administration NAICS: 926130; 
Name: Public Utility Commission-Pennsylvania NAICS: 221122, 926130; 
Name: NRG Energy Inc 
NAICS: 221122;  
Name: Bonneville Power Administration  
NAICS: 221111  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/28/business/energy-environment/natural-gas-power.html  
Title  Wind Buffets Energy Landscape: [Business/Financial Desk]  
Author  Penn, Ivan  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.1  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Mar 29, 2018  
Section  B  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2019234713  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2019234713?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Mar 29, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-09  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 151 of 236 


Behind the Increase in Gas Emissions Last Year: [Foreign Desk] 
Plumer, Brad.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]23 Mar 2018: A.8. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Behind+the+Increase+in+Gas+Emissions+Last+Year%3A+%5BForeign+Desk% 03-23&volume=&issue=&spage=A.8&au=Plumer%2C+Brad&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- If the world wants to avoid drastic global warming this century, we'll need to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions sharply in the years ahead. 
For now, however, we're still moving in the opposite direction: Carbon dioxide emissions from the use of coal, oil and natural gas increased 1.4 percent globally in 2017 after holding steady for the previous three years, the International Energy Agency reported on Thursday. That's the equivalent of adding 170 million new cars to the road worldwide. The energy agency, which called the findings "a strong warning for global efforts to combat climate change," detailed several big reasons CO2 emissions are increasing again. 
Here's a look at the main ones: Emissions are rising fastest in Asia Roughly two-thirds of last year's emissions increase came from Asia, where fast-growing countries like China, India and Indonesia continue to rely heavily on fossil fuels as they 
lift themselves out of poverty. 
China, which is responsible for one-quarter of the world's industrial greenhouse gases, saw its emissions rise 1.7 percent in 2017, fueled by rapid economic growth and an increase in oil and natural gas use. The rest of developing Asia, including India and Indonesia, saw their overall emissions increase 3 percent. That jump in Asian emissions overshadowed cuts made elsewhere in the world: The United States, for instance, reduced its emissions 0.5 percent last year, driven by the 
growing deployment of renewable energy. Britain, Mexico and Japan also managed to cut their emissions. (The European Union over all, by contrast, saw emissions rise 1.5 percent.) 
Renewable energy is growing fast, but not fast enough Renewable energy -- including wind, solar and hydropower -- was the fastest-growing energy source worldwide in 2017. China alone installed as many solar panels last year as the entire solar capacity of France and Germany combined. And the prices for renewable technologies keep falling. 
The catch? Last year's "unprecedented" growth in renewables, the I.E.A. said, satisfied only about one-quarter of the increase in global energy demand as the world's economy boomed. Fossil fuels supplied the rest. "The overall share of fossil fuels in global energy demand in 2017 remained at 81 percent," the agency's report said, "a level that has remained stable for more than three decades despite strong growth in renewables." 
If the world wants to cut emissions quickly and meet the climate goals laid out in the Paris Agreement, the I.E.A. said, clean energy will need to grow about five times as fast each year between now and 2040 as it did last year. 
Coal made a small comeback 
Over the past few years, coal demand has plummeted around the world as countries like the United States and China shift away from the most carbon-intensive of all fossil 
fuels. China, for instance, has been pushing to phase out coal use in residential heating in order to clean up the severe air pollution that is choking its cities. 

But coal use rebounded slightly in 2017, rising by 1 percent, driven in part by an increase in coal-fired power in Southeast Asia. A particularly hot summer in China also led the 

country to run its existing coal plants more often to power air conditioning. 
Yet despite last year's uptick, there are signs that coal is falling out of favor worldwide. India's coal demand is growing at a slower pace than it did over the previous decade, as 
the country turns to solar power and other clean energy sources. And, the I.E.A. said, both China's and the world's coal consumption remains below the 2014 peak. 

S.U.V. sales keep booming 
Demand for oil rose 1.6 percent last year, much faster than the average annual pace over the previous decade. As oil prices have declined, more people in the United States and Europe are buying larger S.U.V.s, pushing up transportation emissions further. The I.E.A. noted that electric cars, which do not use oil, are quickly making inroads in countries like China, as a result of aggressive government mandates and falling battery 
prices. "For now, however, the strong growth in electric-car sales remains too small to make a dent in oil demand growth," the agency said. Energy efficiency efforts are slowing 
In addition to switching to cleaner sources of energy, countries can also curb their emissions by improving the energy efficiency of their factories and homes and vehicles, through policies like building codes and fuel-economy standards. 
On this score, however, the I.E.A. had bad news: In 2017, the energy intensity of the global economy -- a measure of efficiency -- improved by just 1.7 percent, a slower pace than in each of the previous three years. The agency noted that many countries appear to be easing up on government policies to improve energy efficiency. 

Photograph 
A traffic jam in New Delhi this month, above. Last year's emissions increase was the equivalent of adding 170 million new cars worldwide. Left, a coal-fired power plant last year in Huainan, China. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HARISH TYAGI/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY; KEVIN FRAYER/GETTY IMAGES) Copyright New York Times Company Mar 23, 2018 
Subject 	Gases; 
Alternative energy; 

Fossil fuels; 
Clean technology; 

Emissions; 

Energy efficiency; 
Coal-fired power plants; 
Renewable resources; 
Climate change; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Natural gas 


Location 	Southeast Asia; Mexico; United States--US; India; Germany; United Kingdom--UK; China; 

Asia; France; Indonesia; Japan; Europe 


Company / organization 	Name: International Energy Agency 

NAICS: 541720, 926130, 928120; 


Name: European Union NAICS: 926110, 928120 
URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/climate/global-energy-demand.html 
Title 	Behind the Increase in Gas Emissions Last Year: [Foreign Desk] 
Author 	Plumer, Brad 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.8 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Mar 23, 2018 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	General Interest Periodicals--United States 
ISSN 	03624331 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	News 
ProQuest document ID 	2016989412 
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2016989412?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Mar 23, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-09  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 152 of 236 


Pruitt Is Using E.P.A. to Plan A Bid for 2024: [National Desk] 
Davenport, Coral.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]18 Mar 2018: A.1. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Pruitt+Is+Using+E.P.A.+to+Plan+A+Bid+for+2024%3A+%5BNational+Desk%5 03-18&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Davenport%2C+Coral&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- The headline speakers at the Conservative Political Action Conference's annual showcase, the Ronald Reagan Dinner, have historically been rising stars in the Republican Party -- firebrand pundits, prominent activists, future presidential candidates. 
Last month, it was Scott Pruitt, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. 
In the past year, Mr. Pruitt has emerged as a hero to President Trump's supporters for his hand in rolling back environmental rules at an agency long disliked by farmers, the fossil fuel industry and the far right. And he has occasionally shocked his employees by criticizing the very agency he heads. 
"It was an agency that was weaponized against certain sectors of the economy," Mr. Pruitt said to applause at the Reagan dinner. 
Now, people close to Mr. Pruitt say he is using his perch as Mr. Trump's deregulatory czar to position himself for further political prominence -- starting with a run for office in his home state of Oklahoma. He is widely viewed as a future candidate for senator or governor there, and Mr. Pruitt has made it known that if the president replaces his beleaguered attorney general, Jeff Sessions, he would be ready to step into the job. 
Mr. Pruitt's national profile has soared. He has appeared on the cover of the prominent conservative magazines National Review and The Weekly Standard. And Mr. Trump has privately praised some of Mr. Pruitt's more controversial proposals, such as his idea to stage "red team, blue team" debates of climate-change science. 
Mr. Pruitt has faced criticism, and received a reprimand from his boss, for spending more than $107,000 of public money on first-class air travel. But he remains a favorite of Mr. Trump's, and after the past week of White House turmoil -- with the president dismissing his secretary of state and intimating that a greater shake-up may follow -- Mr. Pruitt appears to have job security that could work to his advantage over time. 
The endgame, say people who have spoken with Mr. Pruitt, is a possible run at the presidency in 2024 or later. "It was always known among elite Republicans that this guy had higher ambitions," said Keith Gaddie, a professor of political science at the University of Oklahoma. "The question was just, 'Does he want to be president, or does he want to be attorney general?"' 
To jump from E.P.A. chief to any of those posts would be highly unusual for the head of a historically wonky, low-profile agency. "The take has always been that E.P.A. is where your political career goes to die," said William K. Reilly, who headed the agency under President George Bush. 
Even in Republican administrations, Mr. Reilly said, the job historically involved imposing regulations on polluting industries, which can create powerful enemies. "It's the kind of job that if you do it right, you antagonize a lot of people -- big industry, even your own president," he said. 
But Mr. Pruitt has flipped the script. As Oklahoma's attorney general, he sued the E.P.A. 14 times, and he has spent the past year working to undo regulations that would have required farmers to restrict their fertilizer use; oil and gas firms to control global warming pollution from their wells; and Midwestern power plants to burn less coal. 
"He has made a big splash," Mr. Reilly said. "The mission he is on is not one that his predecessors at E.P.A. have recognized. And it could be a good strategy to win the constituency that elected the president." 
Mr. Pruitt's precise political path forward is not certain. He is viewed as a likely candidate to run for a Senate seat in Oklahoma in 2020 if the incumbent, James Inhofe, retires. But it remains unclear if Mr. Inhofe, 83, will do so, and his office declined to comment. There is also speculation that Mr. Pruitt might jump in as a last-minute candidate in this year's governor's race. 
When asked about its boss's ambitions, Mr. Pruitt's staff emphasizes that he is focused only on the job at hand. It also notes that the E.P.A. chief has made a significant effort to promote his work. "Administrator Pruitt has utilized a wide array of news outlets to advance President Trump's agenda on regulatory certainty and environmental stewardship," his spokesman, Jahan Wilcox, wrote in an email. Through Mr. Wilcox, Mr. Pruitt declined an interview request. 
Some former E.P.A. chiefs noted that Mr. Pruitt's unusual speed at attempting to dismantle regulations could mean that those efforts might not stand up to later legal challenges. "The policies he's pushing play very well in his home state and with the base -- but you can't do them overnight," said Christine Todd Whitman, who headed the 
E.P.A. in the George W. Bush administration and before that was the governor of New Jersey. "They're getting rushed out. I don't think the homework is being done. It makes for good sound bites, but they might not stand up legally." 
That might not affect Mr. Pruitt's longer-term political aspirations, though. "Pruitt could be gone from E.P.A. by the time that happens," Ms. Whitman said. 
Among the largest regulations Mr. Pruitt aims to roll back, at Mr. Trump's direction, is an Obama-era clean water rule, known as Waters of the United States, which would have restricted the chemical fertilizers used by farmers. The rule has been particularly unpopular with the rural voters who make up the core of Mr. Trump's base. This year, Mr. Pruitt announced he would freeze implementation of the rule and issue a more farmer-friendly version by the spring. 
Last year, Mr. Pruitt made two trips to Iowa, a key campaign state in presidential elections, to talk about his agenda. In the summer, he met with farmers to tout his rollback of the clean water regulation. In December, he promised that the E.P.A. would not use regulations to curb the production of corn ethanol -- an issue considered key for presidential candidates in Iowa. 
Mr. Pruitt has also halted implementation of Mr. Obama's climate change rules, which would have frozen construction of new coal-fired power plants, and has said he intends to propose a replacement rule this year. Last April, he spoke at a Pennsylvania coal mine, telling workers that "the regulatory assault is over." 
Behind the scenes, Mr. Pruitt has spent time with major political donors. Last year he met with Foster Friess, a Republican fund-raiser, and with investors connected to Sheldon Adelson, the party megadonor, according to meeting records obtained by The New York Times. He also met with Steven Chancellor, an Indiana coal executive and Republican fund-raiser, according to documents obtained by the Sierra Club and published by Politico. 
"All of this is unusual," Ms. Whitman said. "If you're in a federal position, you should not appear to be campaigning." 
Were Mr. Inhofe, long known as Congress's most vocal opponent of efforts to fight global warming, to retire, Mr. Pruitt would be a natural fit to try to win his Senate seat. 
Mr. Pruitt, who keeps his watch set to the time in Oklahoma even when he is working on the East Coast, has traveled to his home state regularly. Last March through May he spent 43 out of 92 days in Oklahoma or traveling to or from the state, according to a report by the Environmental Integrity Project. 
Mr. Pruitt's rise to prominence in Oklahoma began during the eight years he managed and co-owned the Oklahoma City RedHawks, a minor league baseball team. He won a seat in the State Legislature and opened a small legal office, Christian Legal Services, to challenge government actions that he saw as compromising individual rights. 
As an owner of the RedHawks, Mr. Pruitt ran television ads that featured himself promoting the team. They gave him statewide recognition and played a role in his 2010 race for attorney general, said Chris Wilson, an Oklahoma-based Republican strategist who worked on the presidential campaign of Senator Ted Cruz of Texas. "He had instant name recognition," Mr. Wilson said. 
As attorney general, Mr. Pruitt built close ties with the state's oil and natural gas industry. A 2014 investigation by The Times found that energy lobbyists drafted letters for Mr. Pruitt to send to the E.P.A., on state stationery, outlining the economic hardship of environmental regulations on their industries. 
The ties have paid off politically. Harold G. Hamm, who advised the presidential campaigns of Mr. Trump and Mitt Romney and is the chief executive of Continental Resources, an Oklahoma oil and gas company, was a co-chairman of Mr. Pruitt's 2013 re-election campaign. 
Mr. Pruitt's tenure at the E.P.A. has already proven popular with the oil and natural gas industry. His proposals have been aimed at loosening regulations, particularly an Obama-era rule that would have required companies to rein in emissions of methane, a powerful greenhouse gas, from new oil and gas wells. (A federal appeals court later ruled that the effort was illegal.) 
Energy companies were also delighted when Mr. Pruitt flew to Morocco in December, in an unusual trip aimed at promoting exports of natural gas. That trip received criticism, though, in part because the E.P.A. does not oversee natural gas exports. 
The E.P.A.'s inspector general is investigating some of Mr. Pruitt's trips, including the one to Morocco and some to Oklahoma, but it is not clear whether that will be a liability. "It's not great, but it's not fatal," Michael McKenna, a Republican energy lobbyist who advised the Trump campaign, said referring to Mr. Pruitt's airline expenses. "None of the old rules seem to apply," he said. "The current president seems to have erased a lot of them." 
Credit: CORAL DAVENPORT; Maggie Haberman contributed reporting. 

Photograph 
Scott Pruitt (A1); Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. administrator, has a record of rolling back regulations, which is seen as a possible springboard to higher office. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM BRENNER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A22) Copyright New York Times Company Mar 18, 2018 
Subject 	Political activism; 

Attorneys general; 
Environmental stewardship; 

Regulatory agencies; 

Political action committees--PAC; 
State elections; 
Presidential elections; 
Candidates; 
Energy industry; 

Climate change 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Trump, Donald J; Pruitt, Scott 
Company / organization 	Name: Republican Party 

NAICS: 813940; 

Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA NAICS: 924110 
URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/17/climate/scott-pruitt-political-ambitions.html 
Title  Pruitt Is Using E.P.A. to Plan A Bid for 2024: [National Desk]  
Author  Davenport, Coral  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.1  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Mar 18, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2014613236  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2014613236?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Mar 18, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-09  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 153 of 236 


The Case for a Carbon Tax on Beef: [Op-Ed] 
Conniff, Richard.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]18 Mar 2018: SR.9. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=The+Case+for+a+Carbon+Tax+on+Beef%3A+%5BOp­Ed%5D&title=New+York+Times&issn=03624331&date=2018-03­18&volume=&issue=&spage=SR.9&au=Conniff%2C+Richard&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Let me admit up front that I would rather be eating a cheeseburger right now. Or maybe trying out a promising new recipe for Korean braised short ribs. But our collective love affair with beef, dating back more than 10,000 years, has gone wrong, in so many ways. And in my head, if not in my appetites, I know it's time to break it off. 
So it caught my eye recently when a team of French scientists published a paper on the practicality of putting a carbon tax on beef as a tool for meeting European Union climate change targets. The idea will no doubt sound absurd to Americans reared on Big Macs and cowboy mythology. While most of us recognize that we are already experiencing the effects of climate change, according to a 2017 Gallup poll, we just can't imagine that, for instance, floods, mudslides, wildfires, biblical droughts and back-to-back Category 5 hurricanes are going to be a serious problem in our lifetimes. And we certainly don't make the connection to the food on our plates, or to beef in particular. 
The cattle industry would like to keep it that way. Oil, gas and coal had to play along, for instance, when the Obama-era Environmental Protection Agency instituted mandatory reporting of greenhouse gas emissions. But the program to track livestock emissions was mysteriously defunded by Congress in 2010, and the position of the National Cattlemen's Beef Association at the time was that the extent of the emissions was "alleged and unsubstantiated." The association now goes an Orwellian step further, arguing in its 2018 policy book that agriculture is a source of offsets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. 
Agriculture, including cattle raising, is our third-largest source of greenhouse gas emissions, after the energy and industrial sectors. At first glance, the root of the problem may appear to be our appetite for meat generally. Chatham House, the influential British think tank, attributes 14.5 percent of global emissions to livestock -- "more than the emissions produced from powering all the world's road vehicles, trains, ships and airplanes combined." Livestock consume the yield from a quarter of all cropland worldwide. Add in grazing, and the business of making meat occupies about three-quarters of the agricultural land on the planet. 
Beef and dairy cattle together account for an outsize share of agriculture and its attendant problems, including almost two-thirds of all livestock emissions, according to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization. That's partly because there are so many of them -- 1 billion to 1.4 billion head of cattle worldwide. They don't outnumber humanity, but with cattle in this country topping out at about 1,300 pounds apiece, their footprint on the planet easily outweighs ours. 
The emissions come partly from the fossil fuels used to plant, fertilize and harvest the feed to fatten them up for market. In addition, ruminant digestion causes cattle to belch and otherwise emit huge quantities of methane. A new study in the journal Carbon Balance and Management puts the global gas output of cattle at 120 million tons per year. Methane doesn't hang around in the atmosphere as long as carbon dioxide. But in the first 20 years after its release, it's 80 to 100 times more potent at trapping the heat of the sun and warming the planet. The way feedlots and other producers manage manure also ensures that cattle continue to produce methane long after they have gone to the great steakhouse in the sky. 
The French researchers, from the Toulouse School of Economics, decided to take a look at a carbon tax on beef because the European Union has committed to cut its greenhouse gas emissions more than half by midcentury -- and that includes agricultural emissions. The ambition is to keep global warming under 2 degrees Celsius, widely regarded as a tipping point at which cascading and potentially catastrophic effects of climate change could sweep across the planet. Their study found that a relatively steep tax, based on greenhouse gas emissions, would raise the retail price of beef by about 40 percent and cause a corresponding drop in consumption, much like the sugar tax on sodas and the tax on tobacco products. 
Wouldn't it make more sense to put a carbon tax on fossil fuel, a larger source of greenhouse gas emissions? You bet. But many people who now commute in conventional gas-fueled automobiles have no better way to get home -- or to heat their homes when they get there. That broader carbon tax will require dramatically restructuring our lives. A carbon tax on beef, on the other hand, would be a relatively simple test case for such taxes and, according to the French study, only a little painful, at least at the household level: While people would tend to skip the beef bourguignon, they could substitute other meats, like pork and chicken, that have a much smaller climate change footprint. 
The tax would also reduce the substantial contribution of beef and dairy cattle to water pollution, deforestation, biodiversity loss and human mortality. (A 2012 Harvard School of Public Health study found that adding a single serving of unprocessed red meat per day increases the risk of death by 13 percent.) Those factors have already driven down beef consumption in the United States by 19 percent since 2005. 
Zohra Bouamra-Mechemache, a co-author of the French study, readily acknowledged that the proposed carbon tax on beef has no chance of becoming reality, "not even in Europe" and certainly not in the United States. Our politicians continue to regard the beef industry as, well, a sacred cow. And even if the rest of us acknowledge the reality of climate change, we tend to put off actually doing much about it in our own lives. It's a J. Wellington Wimpy philosophy: We want our hamburgers today, on a promise to pay on some future Tuesday, probably in our grandchildren's lifetimes. 
Still, the idea of a carbon tax on beef makes me think. I crave the aroma of beef, from a burger, or a barbecue brisket cooked low and slow. It's just harder to enjoy it now when I can also catch the faint whiff of methane lingering 20 years into our increasingly uncertain future. 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 

AuthorAffiliation 
Richard Conniff (@RichardConniff) is the author of "House of Lost Worlds: Dinosaurs, Dynasties, and the Story of Life on Earth" and a contributing opinion writer. 

Illustration 
DRAWING (DRAWING BY IGOR BASTIDAS); CHART: Paying the Price for Polluting: The production of beef has a larger impact on the environment than that of any other meat or dairy product. A tax based on carbon emissions could increase the price of beef by up to 41 percent in supermarkets. (Source: Céline Bonnet, Zohra Bouamra-Mechemache and Tifenn Corre) 
Copyright New York Times Company Mar 18, 2018 
Subject 	Agriculture; 
Beef; 
Greenhouse gases; 
Emissions; 

Carbon; 
Greenhouse effect; 
Meat products; 

Climate change; 
Environmental tax 


Location 	United States--US; Europe 
Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 

NAICS: 924110 


URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/17/opinion/sunday/carbon-tax-on-beef.html 
Title 	The Case for a Carbon Tax on Beef: [Op-Ed] 
Author 	Conniff, Richard 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	SR.9 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Mar 18, 2018 
column 	Contributing Op-Ed Writer 
Section 	SR 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	General Interest Periodicals--United States 
ISSN 	03624331 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	Commentary 
ProQuest document ID 	2014612126 
Document URL 	https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2014612126?accountid=14902 
Copyright 	Copyright New York Times Company Mar 18, 2018 Last updated 2018-11-08 
Database Global Newsstream 
document 154 of 236 


Clean Energy Ideas That Could Prove Odd Enough to Work: [National Desk] 
Plumer, Brad.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]17 Mar 2018: A.11. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Clean+Energy+Ideas+That+Could+Prove+Odd+Enough+to+Work%3A+%5BNat 03-17&volume=&issue=&spage=A.11&au=Plumer%2C+Brad&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Off the coast of California, the idea is that someday tiny robot submarines will drag kelp deep into the ocean at night, to soak up nutrients, then bring the plants back to the surface during the day, to bask in the sunlight. 
The goal of this offbeat project? To see if it's possible to farm vast quantities of seaweed in the open ocean for a new type of carbon-neutral biofuel that might one day power trucks and airplanes. Unlike the corn- and soy-based biofuels used today, kelp-based fuels would not require valuable cropland. 
Of course, there are still some kinks to work out. "We first need to show that the kelp doesn't die when we take it up and down," said Cindy Wilcox, a co-founder of Marine BioEnergy Inc., which is doing early testing this summer. 
Ms. Wilcox's venture is one of hundreds of long shots being funded by the federal government's Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy. Created a decade ago, ARPA-E now spends $300 million a year nurturing untested technologies that have the potential -- however remote -- of solving some of the world's biggest energy problems, including climate change. 
This week at a convention center near Washington, thousands of inventors and entrepreneurs gathered at the annual ARPA-E conference to discuss the obstacles to a cleaner energy future. Researchers funded by the agency also showed off their ideas, which ranged from the merely creative (a system to recycle waste heat in Navy ships) to the utterly wild (concepts for small fusion reactors). 
Consider, for instance, wind power. In recent years, private companies have been aiming to build ever-larger turbines offshore to try to catch the steadier winds that blow higher in the atmosphere and produce electricity at lower cost. One challenge is to design blades as long as football fields that will not buckle under the strain. 
At the conference, one team funded by ARPA-E showed off a new design for a blade, inspired by the leaves of palm trees, that can sway with the wind to minimize stress. The group will test a prototype this summer at the Department of Energy's wind-testing center in Colorado, and ARPA-E has connected the team with private companies such as Siemens and the turbine manufacturer Vestas that can critique their work. 
[Video: Watch on YouTube.] 
While there are no guarantees, the researchers aim to design a 50-megawatt turbine taller than the Eiffel Tower with 650-foot blades, which would be twice as large as the most monstrous turbines today. Such technology, they claim, could reduce the cost of offshore wind power by 50 percent. 
Or take energy storage -- which could enable greater use of wind and solar power. As renewable energy becomes more widespread, utilities will have to grapple with the fact that their energy production can fluctuate significantly on a daily or even monthly basis. In theory, batteries or other energy storage techniques could allow grid operators to soak up excess wind energy during breezy periods for use during calmer spells. But the current generation of lithium-ion batteries may prove too expensive for large-scale seasonal storage. 
It's still not clear what set of technologies could help crack this storage problem. But the agency is placing bets on everything from novel battery chemistries to catalysts that could convert excess wind energy into ammonia, which could then be used in fertilizer or be used as a fuel source itself. 
At the summit, Michael Campos, an ARPA-E fellow, also discussed the possibility of using millions of old oil and gas wells around the Midwest for energy storage. One idea would use surplus electricity to pump pressurized air into the wells. Later, when extra power was needed, the compressed gas could drive turbines, generating electricity. A few facilities like this already exist, though they typically rely on salt caverns. Using already-drilled wells could conceivably reduce costs further. 
"This is a very early stage idea," Dr. Campos told the audience. "I'd love to hear from you if you have ideas for making this work -- or even if you think it won't work." 
Other projects focused on less-heralded problems. A company called Achates Power showed off a prototype of a pickup truck with a variation on the internal combustion engine that it hoped could help heavy-duty trucks get up to 37 miles to the gallon -- no small thing in a world in which S.U.V. sales are booming. Several other ventures were tinkering with lasers and drones to detect methane leaks from natural gas pipelines more quickly. Methane is a far more potent greenhouse gas than carbon dioxide. 
[Video: Watch on YouTube.] 
Looming over the conference, however, was the murky future of the agency itself. The Trump administration, which favors more traditional sources of energy such as coal, has proposed eliminating the agency's budget altogether, arguing that "the private sector is better positioned to advance disruptive energy research." 
So far, Congress has rejected these budget cuts and continues to fund the agency. But the uncertainty echoed throughout the conference, even as Rick Perry, the energy secretary, sent along an upbeat video message lauding the agency's work -- a message seemingly at odds with the White House's budget. 
[Video: Watch on YouTube.] 
"We are at a crossroads," Chris Fall, the agency's principal deputy director, told the attendees. "But until we're told to do something different, we need to keep thinking about the future." 
When Congress first authorized ARPA-E in 2007, the idea was that private firms often lack the patience to invest in risky energy technologies that may take years to pay off. Many solar firms, for instance, are more focused on installing today's silicon photovoltaic panels than on looking for novel materials that might improve the efficiency of solar cells a decade from now. 
Because energy technologies can take years to reach fruition, the agency does not yet have any wild success stories to brag about. By contrast, a similar program at the Pentagon created in the 1950s, the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, or DARPA, can fairly claim to have laid the groundwork for the internet. 
Instead, ARPA-E's defenders have to cite drier metrics, like the fact that 13 percent of projects have resulted in patents, or that its awardees have received $2.6 billion in subsequent private funding. 
In a review last year, the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine concluded that "ARPA-E has made significant contributions to energy R&D that likely would not take place absent the agency's activities." The report added, "It is often impossible to gauge what will prove to be transformational." 

Photograph 
The Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy is funding a submarine experiment that could turn kelp into an alternative biofuel. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REINHARD DIRSCHERL/ULLSTEIN BILD, VIA GETTY IMAGES); An agency project from 2016 featured a robot that helped scientists breed fast-growing strains of sorghum. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SMITH COLLECTION/GADO, VIA GETTY IMAGES) Copyright New York Times Company Mar 17, 2018 
Subject 	Research; 
Biodiesel fuels; 
Federal budget; 
Photographs; 
Wind power; 

Electricity; 
Researchers; 

Alternative energy sources; 

Natural gas 


Location 	Colorado; California 
People 	Perry, Rick 
Company / organization 	Name: Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency 

NAICS: 928110; 

Name: Department of Energy NAICS: 926130; 
Name: Congress NAICS: 921120; 
Name: YouTube Inc NAICS: 519130; 
Name: Department of Defense NAICS: 928110; 
Name: Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy NAICS: 926130; 
Name: National Academies of Sciences Engineering & Medicine NAICS: 813920 
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/16/climate/arpa-e-summit.html  
Title  Clean Energy Ideas That Could Prove Odd Enough to Work: [National Desk]  
Author  Plumer, Brad  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  

Pages  A.11  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Mar 17, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2014383787  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2014383787?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Mar 17, 2018  
Last updated  2019-07-05  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 155 of 236 


An Ounce of Science Versus a Ton of Cure: [Science Desk] 
Brody, Jane E.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]13 Mar 2018: D.5. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=An+Ounce+of+Science+Versus+a+Ton+of+Cure%3A+%5BScience+Desk%5D& 03-13&volume=&issue=&spage=D.5&au=Brody%2C+Jane+E&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Ignore the warnings of scientists at your peril. That is a very valuable lesson our nation can learn from a horrific weather-related tragedy that befell London in 1952, bathing the city in toxic smog that claimed the lives of thousands of people. Had London acted as had been suggested after a nearly identical disaster struck Donora, Pa., four years earlier, many deaths could have been avoided. 
The yellow-brown "killer fog," as it came to be called, reduced visibility to two feet. Thousands of tons of sulfurous coal smoke and diesel fumes were trapped over a 30-mile area by a cold, moist temperature inversion, covering London with a blanket of poisonous air. In less than a week, the fog killed about 4,000 people, and another 8,000 died prematurely in the months that followed. 
British scientists had been warning of such a disaster, but alas, the protective measures they suggested were approved by lawmakers but never implemented. To make matters worse, the government ignored its meteorologists' warning that an extraordinarily dense fog was about to descend on London. 
It took nearly four years for Parliament to pass the Clean Air Act of 1956 that restricted the burning of coal in urban areas and helped homeowners convert from coal to less harmful ways to heat their homes. 
The parallels of this catastrophic weather event to current concerns about climate change are hard to ignore. Already as the world's climate warms, there has been an increase in devastating droughts and life- and property-destroying wildfires, mudslides and floods. 
All the while the polar and Arctic ice caps are melting and, despite dire warnings from highly reputable scientists, the current administration is taking little action to protect its citizens from future climactic disasters that scientists say are sure to come. Instead, there has been a push to bring back coal and rescind regulatory measures that helped to clean the air and water of pollutants. 
Likewise, a loosening of regulations and appointments of agency administrators with strong ties to the industries they oversee threaten the safety and healthfulness of the foods and beverages we consume and feed to our most vulnerable: children, the elderly and those with compromised immunity. Agencies tasked with protecting public health are under fire and working with diminished resources. 
Must it take a calamity, like an outbreak of food poisoning that kills tens of thousands or a deadly epidemic of an infectious disease, to awaken Congress to the dangers that lie ahead and goad it to protect the citizens it was elected to serve? 
History is filled with examples of scientifically sound guidance that was ignored or pilloried by those in power. In the late 1990s, for example, half a dozen major health agencies, including the Department of Health and Human Services, endorsed a national needle exchange program to curb the spread of H.I.V./AIDS. But President Bill Clinton rejected the advice, and the resulting H.I.V. infections cost the health care system as much as half a billion dollars. 
Last March, Scott Pruitt, newly appointed to head the Environmental Protection Agency, rejected the previous administration's proposal to ban agricultural use of a Dow Chemical Company pesticide, chlorpyrifos. The agency's scientific advisory panel had concluded in 2016 that children risked irreversible brain damage and neurodevelopmental problems from very low levels of exposure to food residues of the chemical, which continues to be widely used on fruits and vegetables. 
In hopes of bolstering the coal industry, Mr. Pruitt, who has rejected established climate science, has also scrapped regulations in the Clean Power Plan put in place by the Obama administration to minimize heat-trapping pollution. A warming trend in sea surface temperatures in the North Atlantic in recent decades has been strongly associated with the spread of potentially deadly marine pathogens like Vibrio cholerae, the cause of cholera, and V. parahaemolyticus, a cause of food poisoning, and could lead to widespread outbreaks. 
Food safety measures are also in jeopardy. Enforcement has been delayed indefinitely of crucial rules in the Food and Drug Administration's Food Safety Modernization Act, enacted seven years ago with bipartisan support to protect consumers from exposure to dangerous pathogens like salmonella and E. coli. Some of those who harvest, package and store foods produced on farms are now exempt from the act's rules to prevent contamination of the food supply. Yet, each year 48 million people in this country are sickened, 128,000 are hospitalized and 3,000 die from preventable food-borne diseases. 
The lax food safety rules of the European Union should be a lesson to heed. France and its allies are currently reeling under massive recalls of baby formula and other products contaminated with salmonella, a crisis said to stem from weak regulations that allowed tainted products to make their way into supermarkets and pharmacies even weeks after the problem was discovered. 
Nutritional depletion from rising concentrations of carbon dioxide, the main greenhouse gas in the atmosphere, is another risk to the healthfulness of the American food supply, according to some experts. Dr. Samuel S. Myers, principal research scientist at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, and colleagues linked significant reductions in zinc, iron and protein in staple grain crops like rice and wheat and smaller reductions in protein in legumes to rising levels of carbon dioxide in the air. 
The researchers demonstrated these effects by growing 41 different varieties of staple crops under conditions likely to exist by 2050 unless there is a major decline in carbon dioxide pollution. 
In an interview, Dr. Myers explained that even a small reduction in the protein content of grains could increase carbohydrate consumption and raise the risk of metabolic diseases like diabetes and heart disease that already endanger our overweight population. 
Efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to fight global warming can provide not only long-term benefits for public health but also have immediate health "co-benefits," according to Dr. Andy Haines of the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. 
An increase in walking and cycling instead of a reliance on fuel-powered vehicles, for example, would help to counter diabetes, heart disease, stroke and other chronic ailments linked to a sedentary lifestyle. A shift to "environmentally more sustainable healthy diets," he notes, would not only help to counter greenhouse gases but also lead to reductions in all-cause mortality. 

Illustration 
DRAWING (DRAWING BY PAUL ROGERS) Copyright New York Times Company Mar 13, 2018 
Subject 	Food supply; 
Pathogens; 
Food safety; 

Diabetes; 

Scientists; 
Food contamination & poisoning; 

Salmonella; 
Air pollution; 

Climate change; 
Proteins; 

Bans; 

Greenhouse gases; 
Fog; 

Epidemics; 

Carbon dioxide; 
Cardiovascular disease; 

Public health; 
Coal 


Location 	Arctic region; France 
People 	Pruitt, Scott; Clinton, Bill 
Company / organization 	Name: Dow Chemical Co 

NAICS: 325180, 325199, 325211; 


Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA NAICS: 924110; 
Name: Congress NAICS: 921120; 
Name: Food & Drug Administration--FDA NAICS: 922190; 
Name: European Union NAICS: 926110, 928120; 
Name: Department of Health & Human Services NAICS: 923120 
URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/12/well/ignoring-science-at-our-peril.html 
Title 	An Ounce of Science Versus a Ton of Cure: [Science Desk] 
Author 	Brody, Jane E 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	D.5 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date  Mar 13, 2018  
column  Personal Health  
Section  D  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2013120374  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2013120374?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Mar 13, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-08  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 156 of 236 


Dinner With Big Donors In Middle of the Swamp: [National Desk] 
Vogel, Kenneth P.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]09 Mar 2018: A.15. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Dinner+With+Big+Donors+In+Middle+of+the+Swamp%3A+%5BNational+Desk 03-09&volume=&issue=&spage=A.15&au=Vogel%2C+Kenneth+P&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- President Trump dined at the ornate Georgetown home of a prominent Washington lawyer on Wednesday night with wealthy donors who are expected to play 
crucial roles in financing his re-election campaign. 
The dinner was the latest in a series of donor events associated with a pair of independent groups -- America First Policies and America First Action -- that are aiming to raise 
$100 million this year, mostly in large donations, to support Mr. Trump's agenda and the election campaigns of allied congressional candidates. 

Attendees included donors and operatives who are working to raise money for the America First groups, such as the Dallas financial executive Roy W. Bailey and the Oklahoma 

oil billionaire Harold Hamm, as well as the president's eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., according to someone briefed on the list of attendees and published reports. 
Mr. Hamm and Mr. Bailey are on the board of America First Policies, a nonprofit group that was created to advocate Mr. Trump's agenda and that has paid for a series of polls 
and strategy memos about the political effects of the Trump administration's efforts. America First Action, on the other hand, is a "super PAC" that is raising money to air 
advertisements in support of Republican congressional candidates allied with the president. 

The two groups are headed by the veteran Republican operative Brian O. Walsh, who also attended Wednesday's dinner. 

The gathering was hosted by C. Boyden Gray, a Washington lawyer who served in top positions in both George Bush's and George W. Bush's presidential administrations, and 
who is known for hosting gatherings of the capital's Republican elite. 
It was a rare night on the town for a president who mostly remains cloistered in the White House when he is in Washington, and who, when he does dine out, usually goes to 

the steakhouse in the hotel he owns five blocks away. 

The evening also highlights the extent to which Mr. Trump has embraced features of Washington politics that he denounced on the campaign trail. He had pledged to "drain the 
swamp" of the city's permanent political class and to forsake the contributions of wealthy donors, who he said had too much power. 
Mr. Gray could not be reached for comment. Mr. Walsh and Donald Trump Jr. did not respond to requests for comment. 
Lindsay Walters, a deputy White House press secretary, stressed that the dinner was not a fund-raiser. 
"Tonight the president had dinner with a small group of supporters at the private residence of C. Boyden Gray," she said on Wednesday night. 
Even if no money was collected Wednesday night, the gathering was part of a fund-raising campaign by the two groups that has ramped up in recent weeks with assistance 

from Mr. Trump, his family and top officials in his administration. 
Vice President Mike Pence spoke last month at an America First round table in Dallas, and Donald Trump Jr. has attended events for the groups, as well. 
Secretary of Energy Rick Perry spoke Tuesday afternoon at a round table in Houston, which was attended by Mr. Bailey and a number of prominent Texas donors, including the 

Dallas investor Doug Deason. 

"They're making a pretty serious push," said Mr. Deason, who is on the finance committee of the America First groups. "It's an all-out effort to knock it out of the park with this 
super PAC." 
Mr. Deason explained that the groups are careful not to ask for contributions, or to discuss spending strategies, in the presence of administration officials. 
That is because officials are barred by campaign finance rules from coordinating spending strategies with -- or raising large sums for -- entities like the America First groups, 

which, unlike campaign and party committees, are not subject to federal contribution limits. 

Instead, Mr. Deason said, the administration officials have generally discussed Mr. Trump's agenda and answered questions from the assembled donors. Mr. Perry, for instance, 
was asked about the president's proposed tariffs on steel and aluminum by donors who were concerned about them. 
After such events, representatives from the America First groups will follow up with donors to solicit contributions -- a common fund-raising strategy for super PACs and other 

unlimited-money political groups. 

Someone with direct knowledge of the America First groups said they had been telling donors that they had already raised $40 million and intended to raise another $60 million for their 2018 efforts. 
A majority of the funds raised so far have been collected by America First Policies, a nonprofit group registered under a section of the tax code -- 501(c)(4) -- that allows it to shield most information about its finances, including the identity of its donors. 
America First Action, on the other hand, is required to disclose its donors and expenditures on a periodic basis to the Federal Election Commission. 
The group's most recent report revealed that it raised $4 million last year, with half of that coming from the Los Angeles developer Geoffrey H. Palmer. An additional $1 million came from the Murray Energy Corporation, a coal company based in Ohio that has assiduously courted Mr. Trump as it pressed the new administration to repeal President Barack Obama's climate change policies intended to shut down old coal-burning power plants. 
America First Action spent tens of thousands of dollars at the Trump International Hotel on events for donors, and also paid tens of thousands of dollars each to firms associated with Mr. Trump's first campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski, and his newly named re-election campaign manager, Brad Parscale, among other loyalists. 
Copyright New York Times Company Mar 9, 2018 
Subject 	Fund raising; 
Campaign contributions; 
Political campaigns; 
Presidents; 
Presidential elections; 
Politics; 

Political finance; 
Nonprofit organizations 


Location 	United States--US; Washington DC 
People 	Trump, Donald J 
Company / organization 	Name: Federal Election Commission 

NAICS: 921190 


URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/08/us/politics/trump-donor-dinner-georgetown.html 
Title 	Dinner With Big Donors In Middle of the Swamp: [National Desk] 
Author 	Vogel, Kenneth P 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.15 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Mar 9, 2018 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	General Interest Periodicals--United States 
ISSN 	03624331 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	News 
ProQuest document ID  2011987214  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2011987214?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Mar 9, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-08  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 157 of 236 


Unusual Plan From Young Conservatives: Carbon Tax: [National Desk] 
Friedman, Lisa.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]07 Mar 2018: A.13. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Unusual+Plan+From+Young+Conservatives%3A+Carbon+Tax%3A+%5BNationa 03-07&volume=&issue=&spage=A.13&au=Friedman%2C+Lisa&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
As the Republican Party struggles to find its footing with the next generation of voters, several conservative college groups have banded together to champion something anathema to the party: a carbon tax. 
The group is led by the Yale College Republicans, the main campus student organization for young Republicans at Yale, and includes other prominent Republican groups at 22 other schools around the country including Clemson University in South Carolina, North Carolina State University and Texas Christian University in Fort Worth, Texas. Under the name Students for Carbon Dividends, the coalition is backing an idea first broached by Republican heavyweights including former Secretary of State James A. Baker III and former Secretary of State George P. Shultz: Tax the carbon pollution produced by burning fossil fuels and then return the money to consumers as a dividend in the form of monthly cash payments to individuals, both adults and children alike. 
Late last month, several of the campus Republican leaders involved in the climate change coalition visited Washington to volunteer at the Conservative Political Action Conference, the annual gathering of conservative activists and politicians. 
Republican strategists said the budding movement reflected an important shift on social and environmental issues that could divide the party along generational lines. Political polls suggest that millennials are dissatisfied with what they see as politics as usual from both parties. But Republicans said they worried their ranks would bear the brunt of the shift as young people moved away from party orthodoxy on issues like guns, gay marriage and climate change. 
"I think what we see is that, at a time when younger voters are rejecting party politics broadly, they're rejecting the Republican Party at a much higher rate because what they see, according to them, is a party that doesn't want to listen and doesn't want to grow," said Doug Heye, a former communications director for the Republican National Committee. 
"It's a problem right now, but it's going to be a catastrophic problem in five years or 10 years," Mr. Heye said. 
The leaders of nearly two dozen Republican student groups involved in the coalition said they and their peers accepted the scientific consensus that humans have played a significant role in warming the planet. Many said they were tired of hearing Republican leaders deny climate change and did not want their party branded as anti-science. 
"As a party, we're losing voters rapidly because of this issue," said Kiera O'Brien, president of Harvard University's Republican club, which is a member of the carbon-tax coalition. "I'm increasingly frustrated by the fact that the science is disputed when there's clearly evidence of climate change. We need to have a solution for our party, but we also need a solution that's an alternative between doing nothing or ceding everything to the government." 
By embracing what they call a conservative approach, the students said they hoped to help move the Republican Party on the issue. 
Under the plan the students are proposing, an initial tax of $40 per ton of carbon would be levied at the point where fossil fuels enter the economy, for instance a mine or port. The tax would increase over time. That money would then be returned to taxpayers in a per-person monthly payment, with half-payments going to children under the age of 18 and a limit of two children per family. The Climate Leadership Council created by Mr. Baker and Mr. Shultz estimates a dividend would amount to about $2,000 a year for a family of four. 
As part of the deal, there would also be limitations on regulatory actions like the Clean Power Plan, which former President Barack Obama imposed to reduce carbon emissions from coal-fired power plants. Members of the coalition said they considered a promise to scale back future regulation key to encouraging Republican support. 
Alexander Posner, 22, a Yale University senior who founded the group, said he has been interested in climate change and energy for years. When he read about the climate council Mr. Baker and Mr. Shultz began last year, he signed up for an internship. Soon after, he started contacting his peers at Republican clubs across the country to sound them out on creating a coalition of their own. 
"We've had a lot of conversations, and literally not once has the validity of climate science come up," Mr. Posner said. "I think students really want to have a solutions-based discussion." 
The coalition of 23 Republican student groups, five college Democratic clubs and three university environmental clubs comes at a unique moment of youth political activism. Students nationwide are mobilizing for gun control, inspired by the survivors of the school shooting in Parkland, Fla., and Mr. Posner said that, despite the profound differences in the two movements, young Republicans working on issues like climate change were watching the gun protests with interest. 
"I think the common theme here is if representatives are not responding to the desires of their constituents, in particular young people," he said, "then young people are going to step forward. This coalition on the climate front is sort of a reflecting of the inaction of adults." 
Last week the nonprofit Alliance for Market Solutions issued a survey on millennial attitudes toward climate change showing that nearly 60 percent of young Republicans acknowledge that human-induced climate change is real, and 88 percent of young Democrats. A majority of young people of both parties said they believed steps should be taken to slow or stop climate change. 
"Young voters don't necessarily have strong views on what should be done about climate change, but doing nothing is not a path that most young people, including Republicans, tend to support," said Kristen Soltis Anderson, the Republican strategist who conducted the survey. 
Harrison Preddy, 22, a senior majoring in political science at North Carolina State University, said he was skeptical when he first saw Mr. Posner's email asking him to embrace a carbon tax and dividend. But when the two spoke on the phone, Mr. Preddy said, "it started to speak to what I had been feeling we were missing for so long." 
Raised on a tobacco farm about 45 minutes outside of Raleigh, N.C. -- Mr. Preddy jokes that his family couldn't afford pesticides, so they were organic farmers before it was cool -- he said accepting the science of climate change was not a leap for him because his family had long been attuned to shifting weather patterns. But, he said, he rejected the solutions put forward by Democrats, including regulations like the Clean Power Plan, because he believes they ignored economic hardships posed on communities that depend on fossil fuel production. 
"I'm a strong believer that we need to take action, but at the same time I understood the plights of coal miners, the plight of economic restructuring. It's a heart-string issue for me," Mr. Preddy said. 
Ms. O'Brien said growing up the daughter of a biology teacher near the Tongass National Forest in Alaska taught her a respect for both science and the environment. Ms. O'Brien said she has found the lack of a coherent Republican Party position on climate change her single biggest challenge in recruiting students to the conservative movement. 
"The question I will frequently get is, 'Why do you hate the planet? Why do you not like science?"' she said. "We can't be a party that's entrenching itself in a dying planet." 
Dylan Jones, chairman of the Republican club at the University of Kansas, called addressing climate change a pro-life issue. Mr. Jones, a strong supporter of President Trump, said he questions a good deal of what is said about climate change. But, he said, he believes lawmakers should find a way to protect the planet. 
"If the Republican Party is really the party of life, then we fight for life under every circumstance," he said. "Now it's time for young people like myself to come up with ideas and solutions so we can be part of the discussion and debate instead of sitting on the wayside and denouncing science." 
The Republican National Committee did not return a call to discuss the group's proposal or its strategy toward younger conservatives. The party platform established ahead of the 2016 presidential election takes no position on the science of climate change other than to say the United Nation's scientific body, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is "a political mechanism, not an unbiased scientific institution," and that its conclusions should be assessed in that context. The I.P.C.C. is the principal international scientific body charged with reviewing climate science and issuing reports about the risks to the world's government. 
Mr. Baker said in an interview he believes the idea of a carbon tax and dividend can appeal to those who question climate change science. "I'm sort of a climate change skeptic," he said. "I do think the climate is changing but I don't know why, and I sure don't understand the extent to which man may be responsible for it." 
But, Mr. Baker added, uncertainty about the magnitude of the threat shouldn't be an excuse not to act. "This is a free-market based solution," he said. 

Photograph 
Students for Carbon Dividends at Yale is a group that unites conservatives to promote acceptance of climate change and propose conservative solutions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER LEE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); KIERA O'BRIEN, of Harvard's Republican club; KIERA O'BRIEN, of Harvard's Republican club (PHOTOGRAPH BY BECKY HARLAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) Copyright New York Times Company Mar 7, 2018 
Subject 	College students; 
Conservatism; 
Colleges & universities; 
Pollution control; 
Student organizations; 

Fossil fuels; 
Greenhouse effect; 
Climate change; 
Environmental tax; 

Political parties 


Location 	United States--US 
Company / organization 	Name: Republican National Committee 

NAICS: 813940; 

Name: Republican Party NAICS: 813940 
URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/06/climate/college-republicans-carbon-tax.html 
Title 	Unusual Plan From Young Conservatives: Carbon Tax: [National Desk] 
Author 	Friedman, Lisa 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.13 
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Mar 7, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2011143275  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2011143275?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Mar 7, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-08  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 158 of 236 


Bloomberg Is Named U.N. Climate Envoy: [Foreign Desk] 
Sengupta, Somini.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]06 Mar 2018: A.10. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Bloomberg+Is+Named+U.N.+Climate+Envoy%3A+%5BForeign+Desk%5D&title 03-06&volume=&issue=&spage=A.10&au=Sengupta%2C+Somini&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Want the latest climate news in your inbox? You can sign up here to receive Climate Fwd:, our new email newsletter. 
The United Nations secretary general, António Guterres, on Monday appointed a billionaire politician from New York to be his special envoy for climate action. It amounted to a finger in the eye of another New York billionaire: the one who occupies the White House and who has dismissed the fact of climate change. 
The appointment of Michael R. Bloomberg, a former mayor of New York City who is a prominent advocate in the fight against climate change, to the United Nations post comes a year ahead of a summit meeting on global warming that the secretary general is planning. 
"The world has those that follow and those that lead. And those that lead, some lead in the wrong direction and some lead in the right direction," Mr. Guterres said at a news conference Monday at United Nations headquarters. "You are of those that lead and have always led in the right direction," he told Mr. Bloomberg, "and it is an enormous privilege for me to be able to work so closely with you." 
In a statement, Mr. Guterres said he had asked Mr. Bloomberg to help him encourage governments and private businesses to rapidly reduce the emissions of greenhouse gases to meet the targets of the Paris climate accord. 
"The Secretary General and Michael Bloomberg share the perspective that the emissions gap needs to be closed soon to limit global temperature increase to below 2 degrees Celsius," Mr. Guterres's office said in a statement. 
President Trump has said the United States will pull out of the Paris climate agreement. He has rolled back a host of regulations to protect the environment, appointed climate science deniers to key posts in the administration and championed the use of fossil fuels, defying the scientific consensus that emissions from those fuels are a major cause of global warming. 
On the campaign trail, Mr. Trump described climate change as a "hoax." 
Mr. Bloomberg, who was mayor of New York City from 2002 to 2013, has teamed up with one of Mr. Trump's most outspoken critics, Gov. Jerry Brown of California, to press cities and states to reduce their own greenhouse gas emissions to help the United States meet its Paris agreement targets. 
"For the United States to reach its commitment, much more needs to be done," the two wrote in an opinion article published in The New York Times. "But the world should know: We are not waiting for Washington." 
Mr. Bloomberg has given tens of millions of dollars to environmental groups fighting coal-fired power plants. In 2014, Ban Ki-moon, who was United Nations secretary general at the time, appointed him special envoy for cities and climate change. 
"Around the world, bottom-up solutions are leading the fight against climate change," Mr. Bloomberg said in a Twitter post. "As the new @UN Special Envoy for Climate Action, I'll work with state and non-state actors to help implement policies that reduce emissions & build resilience." 
Mr. Guterres on Monday did not mention the Trump administration, but criticism was implicit in his remarks. How society reacts, he said, will make the difference in winning what he called "the battle against climate change." 
"Governments are important, of course, because they can slow down this process, but the essential is the way societies as a whole react, and that is what Michael Bloomberg is leading in an exemplary way," the secretary general said. 
Mr. Guterres has described Mr. Trump's decision to withdraw from the Paris deal as "a major disappointment." The United States is the only country in the world to have announced its intention to withdraw. 
Follow @NYTClimate on Twitter 

Photograph 
Michael R. Bloomberg Copyright New York Times Company Mar 6, 2018 
Subject 
Emissions; 
Environmental regulations; 
Global warming; 
Coal-fired power plants; 

Paris Agreement; 
Greenhouse effect; 
Climate change; 
Industrial plant emissions 


Location 

People 

Company / organization 

URL 

Title 

Author 

Publication title 

Pages 

Publication year 

Publication date 

Section 

Publisher 

Place of publication 

Country of publication 

Publication subject 

ISSN 

Source type 

Language of publication 

Document type 

ProQuest document ID 

Document URL 

Copyright 

Last updated 

United States--US 
Trump, Donald J; Bloomberg, Michael; Ban Ki Moon; Guterres, Antonio 
Name: United Nations--UN NAICS: 928120 
https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/05/climate/bloomberg-un-climate.html 
Bloomberg Is Named U.N. Climate Envoy: [Foreign Desk] 
Sengupta, Somini 
New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
A.10 
2018 
Mar 6, 2018 
A 
New York Times Company 
New York, N.Y. 
United States, New York, N.Y. 
General Interest Periodicals--United States 
03624331 
Newspapers 
English 
News 
2010642220 
https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2010642220?accountid=14902 
Copyright New York Times Company Mar 6, 2018 
2018-11-08 
Database Global Newsstream 
document 159 of 236 


Signs Point To Another Chaotic Year Under Trump: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Stewart, James B.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]02 Mar 2018: B.1. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Signs+Point+To+Another+Chaotic+Year+Under+Trump%3A+%5BBusiness%2FF 03-02&volume=&issue=&spage=B.1&au=Stewart%2C+James+B&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Throughout his presidential campaign Donald J. Trump extolled his business acumen and management skills, and just before his inauguration he insisted the transition to his administration was going "very, very smoothly." 
Yet so chaotic was his first year in office that in January, after publication of the Michael Wolff tell-all, "Fire and Fury," the president had to publicly defend himself as a "stable genius." 
The White House suffered a staff turnover rate of 34 percent during Mr. Trump's first year, a rate that would be unfathomable at nearly any for-profit enterprise. Even by political standards, it's off the charts -- triple that of the Obama administration, and twice that of Ronald Reagan, the previous record-holder -- according to a study by the Brookings Institution. 
And that was before the recent messy departure of Rob Porter as staff secretary in the wake of spousal abuse allegations, or the announcement on Wednesday by the White House communications director Hope Hicks -- the fourth person to hold the job -- that she, too, was leaving. 
Now at least one White House faction wants Gary Cohn, the chief economic adviser and National Economic Council director -- and a relative island of calm and stability -- to replace John F. Kelly, the chief of staff, who was widely criticized for bungling the Porter affair. If so, he would become the president's third chief of staff in just 14 months. But in this chaotic environment, for every rumor that Mr. Cohn is about to be promoted, there is one that he is about to resign. 
With over a full year under Mr. Trump's belt, and his unorthodox management style fully in evidence, I asked several experts to assess the president's abilities as a manager. 
"It's much worse than I expected," said Jeffrey Pfeffer, professor of organizational behavior at Stanford University and the author of "Power: Why Some People Have It and Others Don't." 
"The most important thing you need as a chief executive is the ability to hire and retain talent," Mr. Pfeffer said. "Trump said he'd get all these great people to work for him. But the rate of departures is unprecedented. Either he hired badly, or he hired well but couldn't retain them. Either way, this reflects badly on his leadership." 
As Jeffrey T. Polzer, professor of human resource management at Harvard Business School, told me last year, the time-tested approach is "to surround yourself with talented people who have the most expertise, who bring different perspectives to the issue at hand." 
"Then you foster debate and invite different points of view in order to reach a high-quality solution," Mr. Polzer said. 
He added that it "requires an openness to being challenged, and some self-awareness and even humility to acknowledge that there are areas where other people know more than you do." 
Mr. Trump does appear to solicit and consider the opinions of others, but they are as likely to be random guests at Mar-a-Lago, or television pundits, as they are experts in the field, or even his own appointees. 
"The lack of attention to data drives me nuts," Mr. Pfeffer said. Mr. Trump, he said, "seems to have no interest in science, social science or data," citing White House initiatives to repeal Obamacare and to rescue the coal industry as glaring examples. 
Others pointed to his threats to pull out of the North American Free Trade Agreement with little understanding of the consequences for American businesses and farmers, and his decision to abandon the Paris climate accord despite scant familiarity with the science of climate change. 
"Nothing about the chaos and turnover in the White House surprises me," said Charles M. Elson, a professor and director of the John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware. 
"He hasn't changed in 30 years," Mr. Elson added. "He isn't bound by any traditional norms of management." 
Yet despite the well-documented disarray prevailing in the West Wing, Mr. Trump's first year has yielded some major accomplishments: business-friendly tax legislation, the appointment of a reliably conservative Supreme Court justice in Neil Gorsuch, the selection of Jerome Powell as chairman of the Federal Reserve and the dismantling of a regulatory regime viewed as overly burdensome by the business community. 
"You have to hand it to him: He has pulled some rabbits out of his hat," Mr. Elson said. "Hardly anyone thought he could pull off tax legislation after so many other people had tried and failed." 
But Mr. Pfeffer said those achievements had occurred despite the chaos, not because of it. For every success, Mr. Trump has had notable failures, starting with overhauling immigration policy and repealing Obamacare. 
"I've long felt that if Trump didn't do well, it would be because of organizational issues," Mr. Pfeffer said. "Even with Republicans in control of both houses of Congress, he hasn't been able to pass much. That speaks to chaos in the policy sphere." 
Mr. Elson said Mr. Trump acted more like the typical entrepreneur than an experienced manager. "A problem with entrepreneurs is that people get tired of it and they move on," he said. "People just get worn out. At some point you need a real manager. A lot of entrepreneurs sell their businesses when they reach a certain size and they realize they can't manage them." 
Would naming Mr. Cohn as chief of staff ameliorate the problem? Despite disenchantment with Mr. Kelly and his handling of the Porter situation, no one I interviewed thinks Mr. Cohn could fundamentally change the dynamic in the Trump White House any more than Mr. Kelly has. 
Mr. Cohn is now basking in the afterglow of the tax legislation, which seems to be growing in popularity with the public. His supporters point to the first-rate team he assembled at the National Economic Council as evidence that he -- perhaps alone among top White House officials -- could attract and retain talent. He enjoys good relations with Congress. 
But if Mr. Cohn became Mr. Trump's chief of staff, he would have to sublimate his own beliefs to the president's agenda. As one former White House official told me, "He can't pull another Charlottesville," referring to Mr. Cohn's efforts last summer to publicly distance himself from the president's racially charged comments while still working for him. 
Thanks to that incident, Mr. Cohn has already fallen from favor once, and his current rehabilitation may not last. People like Mr. Trump "have friends for a day," Mr. Elson said. "That's another quality of the entrepreneur. Like it or not, it's part of what makes them successful." 
While Mr. Cohn has influential supporters at the White House, talk of his possible elevation has prompted plenty of opposition, too, especially from representatives of Mr. Trump's populist base. Mr. Cohn is, after all, a longtime Manhattan Democrat. 
A White House spokesman declined to comment on behalf of Mr. Cohn. 
In any event, Mr. Trump may be oblivious to the staff turnover and widespread vacancies in the executive branch, and indifferent to calls to replace Mr. Kelly. 
"I don't think Trump thinks much about management philosophy," Mr. Pfeffer said. "He ran for president as a lark, and look at him now. For him it's all upside." 

Photograph 
At least one White House faction is urging the president to replace John F. Kelly, right, as chief of staff. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) Copyright New York Times Company Mar 2, 2018 
Subject 	Presidency; 
Political leadership; 
Federal legislation; 
Presidents 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Trump, Donald J; Wolff, Michael; Hicks, Hope; Porter, Rob; Cohn, Gary; Kelly, John F; 

Gorsuch, Neil M 


Company / organization 	Name: Republican Party 

NAICS: 813940; 

Name: Congress 

NAICS: 921120 


URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/01/business/trump-management-style-year-2-see-year-1.html 
Title 	Signs Point To Another Chaotic Year Under Trump: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Author 	Stewart, James B 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	B.1 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Mar 2, 2018 
column 	Common Sense 
Section 	B 
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2009412629  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2009412629?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Mar 2, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-08  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 160 of 236 


With Carbon Tax, Washington Governor Gambles on a 'Politically Toxic' Issue: [National Desk] 
Davenport, Coral.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]02 Mar 2018: A.17. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=With+Carbon+Tax%2C+Washington+Governor+Gambles+on+a+%27Politically+ 03-02&volume=&issue=&spage=A.17&au=Davenport%2C+Coral&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Want the latest climate news in your inbox? You can sign up here to receive Climate Fwd:, our new email newsletter. 
This week in the statehouse in Olympia, Wash., Gov. Jay Inslee fought but failed to bring a vote on a historic climate change policy that he has pursued for years: instituting the nation's first tax on planet-warming carbon dioxide pollution. 
The fate of the Senate vote, which was canceled on Thursday after it became clear that it could not gain enough support even in the Democratic-majority legislature of this West Coast state, was being watched closely around the country and the world. But for Mr. Inslee the loss of this week's carbon-tax battle was just one step in a war to keep pushing his carbon plan, either as a ballot initiative this year -- or possibly as part of a platform in a 2020 challenge against President Trump for the presidency. 
In an interview, Governor Inslee declined to say whether he intends to run for president, but his name is increasingly appearing on lists of possible Democratic contenders. 
Advocates and opponents of climate change action are paying close attention to Mr. Inslee's next steps. Economists broadly agree that taxing the carbon pollution produced by burning fossil fuels is the most efficient way to fight climate change. But politicians agree that it is also a nearly surefire way to get voted out of office. 
After all, a carbon tax is, by design, an energy tax. Among other things it would most likely raise the prices that voters pay for gasoline and electricity, which is why the idea has long been seen as politically toxic. 
In the days before the vote, Governor Inslee said he would like to change that perception. "We are not afraid of being a vanguard," he said in an interview in Washington, D.C. "We invented commercial jet airliners and the best software in the world," he said, referring to Boeing and Microsoft, two global companies that rose up in his state. "In this case, we're developing a new policy system, and we hope it would be followed." 
If he does run for president, Governor Inslee is expected to make climate change central to his platform. Governor Inslee, who has spent the past decade of his political career focusing on climate change, earning the sobriquet "greenest governor in America," sees the issue as a way to directly attack Mr. Trump, who has mocked established climate science, rolled back environmental regulations and promised to withdraw the United States from the landmark Paris climate accord. 
This past Sunday, Governor Inslee said, he made his views clear at a governors' breakfast with Scott Pruitt, the head of Mr. Trump's Environmental Protection Agency and the president's point man in undoing climate change rules. "I told him, you're killing my state," Governor Inslee said of his conversation with Mr. Pruitt. "My state is going up in smoke because our forests are involved in these catastrophic fires." He added, "I told him, this administration is not just irresponsible but morally reprehensible." 
An E.P.A. official didn't immediately respond to a request for comment from Mr. Pruitt. 
The global interest in Governor Inslee's carbon tax push comes as several state leaders are signaling to the world that they intend to act on climate change with or without the Trump administration. More significantly, the state has drawn attention as a major global economy that is willing to buck conventional wisdom by taking on a carbon tax at all. 
"This is very significant. Washington is not just any state, it's home to so many global companies: Starbucks, Microsoft, Amazon," said Erik Solheim, the head of the United Nations Environment Program, speaking by phone from New Delhi, India. "It is part of the signal to the world that the major states, big business are in disagreement with the 
U.S. withdrawing from the Paris climate agreement, and they are doing something about it." 
Opponents of climate change policy, including the fossil fuel industry and allies of the Trump administration, also see the potential for a Washington carbon tax as seminal. "If it works in the state of Washington, it's going to be tried in 10 states next year and 35 states the year after that," said Michael McKenna, a Republican energy lobbyist and political strategist who advised Mr. Trump's campaign and transition. "If Inslee's successful, it will be a game-changer. Everyone will take it and copy it and be off and running." 
Already, carbon tax bills have been introduced in the legislatures of Utah, Maryland, New York, Hawaii, Rhode Island, Vermont, Maine and Washington, D.C. 
Mr. McKenna said that he expects an effort to revive the carbon tax in a November ballot initiative vote to ignite a major campaign both for and against the effort. 
Mr. McKenna is one of many analysts and strategists who see Governor Inslee's push to pass a carbon tax in his home state as his first step toward a national campaign. "This is not just about the state of Washington. This is about Jay positioning himself is a national leader on climate change," Mr. McKenna said. "He is testing out themes and strategies." 
Even if Governor Inslee's tax push makes him a hero in the eyes of environmental advocates around the world, Republicans see it as a political liability, and are preparing to attack him on it. 
"I'm a big fan of having votes on carbon taxes," said Thomas J. Pyle, president of the Institute for Energy Research, a think tank that supports fossil fuels and supplied the Trump administration with its energy policy blueprint, including rolling back climate change regulations and expanding coal and oil exploration. He recounted the history of politicians losing their jobs as a result of backing a price on carbon pollution. 
There was Al Gore in 1993 when, as vice president, he urged Congress to pass an energy bill that would have taxed the heat content of burning fossil fuels. After Democrats pushed the bill through the House, Republicans attacked them for backing an energy tax, and the vote was seen as a key reason that Democrats lost control of the House in 1996. 
The pattern was repeated in 2009, when President Barack Obama tried to push Congress to pass a so-called cap-and-trade bill, which would have required carbon polluters to pay for permits to pollute. The bill passed in the House but cost coal-state Democrats their seats. 
Carbon taxes have helped fell politicians around the world. In 2012, Prime Minister Julia Gillard of Australia successfully pushed to pass a carbon tax. The following year, she was ousted from office in a campaign that was partly seen as a referendum on the tax. 
Although Hillary Clinton campaigned in 2016 on a pledge to tackle climate change, she stopped short of endorsing a carbon tax. "Even Obama recognized, even Hillary Clinton recognized, that a carbon tax is politically toxic," Mr. Pyle said. Governor Inslee, he said, is "going to find out real quickly that it doesn't play in Peoria." 
Even some people who have voted for Governor Inslee express concern about how a carbon tax might be used against him in the hardball of a national political campaign. "I would like to see him run," said Dan Rystrom, 56, a retired investor from a suburb of Seattle who identified himself as a Democrat. "But I think it would be the end of him," he said, describing the political ads he expected to see across the country, saying: "Who is this man from the West Coast who just raised the prices of gasoline?" 
Still, there are signs that other politicians might be willing to take the carbon tax plunge. In Canada, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is pushing to implement a national carbon tax by the end of the year. And while Washington would be the first state in the nation with a straight carbon tax, it is not the first to force polluters to pay for emitting carbon dioxide: As governor of California, Arnold Schwarzenegger signed a cap-and-trade law in 2006. 
Many environmental economists say that in order for a carbon tax to significantly cut planet-warming pollution, it should be set at a rate of $30 to $50 per ton of pollution. The proposed Washington state tax is $12 a ton, although it would increase at $2 per year until it reaches $30. 
The tax is also likely to have a smaller impact on Washington's economy than it might in other states, because of its unique energy mix. The state gets most of its electricity from carbon-free hydropower, rather than coal. 
In the interview, Governor Inslee said that whoever ultimately runs against Mr. Trump in 2020 on the Democrat side should put climate change front and center in his or her campaign. The politics of global warming are changing, he said, as more Americans experiencing economically damaging weather events that scientists can attribute to the changing climate. 
"Climate change used to be an abstraction. It used to be a graph," he said. "Now we're seeing biblical events play out on the 6 o'clock evening news." 
"I believe it is a successful and winning issue," Governor Inslee said. 
Follow @NYTClimate on Twitter 
Credit: CORAL DAVENPORT; Kirk Johnson in Seattle contributed to this report. 

Photograph 
Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington, center, with former Secretary of State John Kerry last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TED S. WARREN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) Copyright New York Times Company Mar 2, 2018 
Subject 	Referendums; 

Fossil fuels; 
Carbon; 
Political parties; 
Environmental tax; 

Global warming; 
Presidents; 
Energy; 
Governors; 
Pollution control; 
Economic models; 

Environmental policy; 
Climate change; 
Pollution; 

Coal 


Location 	United States--US; Washington (state) 
People 	Inslee, Jay 
URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/01/climate/jay-inslee-carbon-tax.html 
Title 	With Carbon Tax, Washington Governor Gambles on a 'Politically Toxic' Issue: [National Desk] 
Author 	Davenport, Coral 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.17 
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Mar 2, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2009411047  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2009411047?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Mar 2, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-08  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 161 of 236 


Clean Energy Has Advocate On the Right: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Penn, Ivan.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]01 Mar 2018: B.1. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Clean+Energy+Has+Advocate+On+the+Right%3A+%5BBusiness%2FFinancial+ 03-01&volume=&issue=&spage=B.1&au=Penn%2C+Ivan&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 

None available. 

Full Text 
LAWRENCEVILLE, Ga. -- Debbie Dooley's conservative profile seems impeccable. The gun-owning daughter of a Baptist preacher, she was an early organizer for the Tea Party movement. She voted for President Trump and still supports him. 
But when it comes to energy, her independent streak sends her down a different path: She takes issue with some of Mr. Trump's signature positions, goes up against some of the nation's biggest utility companies and often crosses conventional partisan lines. 
Ms. Dooley opposes the tariff the president imposed on solar-panel imports in January. As for coal, which Mr. Trump has championed, it will never "be the king it once was," she said. She accepts that human activity is causing climate change -- and worries that it will threaten the health of the next generation, including her 9-year-old grandson, who has asthma. 
To her, those beliefs are consistent with the rest of her worldview. "We should be focusing on the technologies of the future, not the dinosaur technology of the past," Ms. Dooley said. "Our energy grid is vulnerable to attack. Rooftop solar keeps us safe. People like solar." 
What's more, she contends that embracing clean energy affirms the populist beliefs the Tea Party espouses. The monopoly control of utilities over energy supplies stands in contrast to the free market, she said, while solar and wind power represent energy freedom. 
Over the last five years, she has unabashedly linked arms with environmental groups championed by the left, like the Sierra Club. And on Thursday, she is set to appear at an event in San Francisco with a member of the Democratic National Committee's executive committee -- Christine Pelosi, daughter of Representative Nancy Pelosi, the House minority leader vilified by the right. 
"You can have success if you have environmentalists look at saving the environment as an ethic, and evangelicals as saving God's creation," Christine Pelosi said. "You don't have to agree on everything." 
While Ms. Dooley's efforts are still an anomaly in conservative circles, she has formed a group called the Green Tea Coalition to rally more conservatives around renewable energy. 
"Debbie is being a little bit of a trailblazer on the climate issue, but she was always a trailblazer on clean energy," said Stephen Smith, executive director of the Southern Alliance for Clean Energy, an environmental advocacy group based in Knoxville, Tenn. 
Ms. Dooley sees the Trump administration's tariffs on solar-panel imports as the latest in a series of impediments to clean energy. A former information technology systems analyst -- "probably why I am so drawn to innovative energy technology" -- she is particularly critical of policies that make it more difficult for consumers to become more self-reliant for their energy. 
At 59, from her rental home here in the Atlanta suburbs, she works full time on utility, clean energy and climate issues with a total budget of $90,000 a year, using funds from the San Francisco-based Energy Foundation and other donors. She has worked to persuade legislators and regulators in her state to embrace measures that would foster greater use of solar power. 
But it wasn't easy. "I didn't just put my head in the sand like an ostrich," Ms. Dooley said. "Let's face it: They had to come kicking and screaming." 
She is also having a wider impact, taking on some of the nation's largest utilities. 
Proponents of residential solar power like Ms. Dooley accuse utility companies and the energy industry at large of waging war on efforts to free consumers from their power companies, even if only for a slightly lower electric bill. 
For the utilities, which are facing flat or declining consumption, residential solar power threatens the bottom line. They have responded by spending tens of millions of dollars to combat consumers' efforts to untether themselves from the electric grid. 
A new study by the Sustainable Investments Institute, a nonprofit group that conducts research on efforts to influence corporate boards, found that utilities had spent $50 million between 2011 and 2016 to block clean energy in seven states: Alaska, California, Florida, Michigan, Ohio, Oregon and Washington. 
Despite calling itself the Sunshine State, Florida lags behind states like New York and New Jersey in residential solar installations. But a 2016 campaign resulted in overwhelming voter approval of a constitutional amendment to provide a property tax exemption for solar installations. In a referendum months later, voters rejected a utility-backed measure, presented as pro-solar, that would have actually allowed new fees on home solar users. 
Florida Power & Light and Duke Energy spent a combined $14.8 million on the referendum campaign. Ms. Dooley worked to counter their efforts, standing with environmentalists and business groups and helping win support from the Christian Coalition and self-identified libertarians. 
Her side prevailed. And aided by the property-tax break and lower solar-panel prices, Florida more than doubled the number of residential solar projects in 2016 compared with the previous year, according to the Southern Alliance for Clean Energy. 
Clean-energy proponents are determined to build on such successes. According to research by the University of California, Irvine, the California Institute of Technology and the Carnegie Institution for Science, 80 percent of the nation's power needs can be met by solar and wind. 
Although she backed the Florida tax break, Ms. Dooley said she was convinced that alternative energy sources could hold their own without government intervention. "I think solar and wind have progressed to the point that they don't need subsidies," she said. "The government shouldn't pick winners and losers." 
That conservative shading to her argument might appeal to Republicans. Still, red states -- particularly in the South -- have been resistant to residential solar power, a review of data from the solar industry organization has found. If they support solar power at all, their utilities tend to want to produce it themselves. 
Of the 10 states with the most residential solar power, eight voted for Hillary Clinton in 2016. Of the 10 with the most solar capacity at utility scale, six voted for Mr. Trump. 
Randy Wheeless, a spokesman for Duke Energy, insists that utilities are embracing cleaner technologies, noting that a decision by the company to forgo building a nuclear plant in Florida included plans for new solar farms. He said Duke was one of the few utilities in the country to file comments opposing the solar-panel tariff. 
Mr. Wheeless also said Duke had recently been adding 300 residential solar customers in Florida each month. 
But Lauren McDonald Jr., a member of the Georgia Public Service Commission who led efforts to bring more solar to his state, said the utilities simply didn't want to depart from the business model they had operated under for a century, despite the changing world of energy. 
"Their business is to generate electricity, transport it and to sell it," Mr. McDonald said. "Anything that might come into play that might derail that agenda, they don't give up easily." 
Neither, it seems, does Ms. Dooley. 
When she talks about clean energy and climate change, she clutches her cellphone and pulls up a picture of her grandson, Ayden Sides. 
"I fully believe we should be good stewards of what God gave us," Ms. Dooley said. 

AuthorAffiliation 
Follow Ivan Penn on Twitter: @ivanlpenn. 
Photograph 
Debbie Dooley at an Atlanta park powered by solar energy. An early Tea Party organizer and Trump supporter, she crosses partisan lines in campaigning for alternative energy. 
(PHOTOGRAPH BY MELISSA GOLDEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) CHART: Different Directions on Solar Energy: Republican-leaning states lag in residential solar capacity, 
though some of those states are among the leaders in large solar-power projects by utility companies. (Source: Solar Energy Industries Association) (B4) 
Copyright New York Times Company Mar 1, 2018 

Subject 	Conservatism; 
Clean technology; 

Environmentalists; 
Energy industry; 

Climate change; 
Solar energy; 
Referendums; 

Tariffs; 

Public utilities; 
Political campaigns; 
Environmental protection; 
Alternative energy sources; 

Renewable resources; 
Energy policy 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Dooley, Debbie; Trump, Donald J 
Company / organization 	Name: Florida Power & Light Co 

NAICS: 221122; 

Name: Solar Energy Industries Association NAICS: 813910; 
Name: Sierra Club NAICS: 813312; 
Name: Tea Party Inc NAICS: 813940; 
Name: Republican Party NAICS: 813940; 
Name:  Duke Energy Corp  
NAICS:  221122;  
Name:  California Institute of Technology  
NAICS:  611310;  
Name:  Energy Foundation  
NAICS:  541711;  
Name:  Southern Alliance for Clean Energy  
NAICS:  813312;  
Name:  Public Service Commission-Georgia  
NAICS:  926130  


URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/28/business/energy-environment/debbie-dooley-energy.html  
Title  Clean Energy Has Advocate On the Right: [Business/Financial Desk]  
Author  Penn, Ivan  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.1  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Mar 1, 2018  
Section  B  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2009102594  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2009102594?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Mar 1, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-08  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 162 of 236 


Germany's Car Capital Reels As Court Allows Ban on Cars: [Foreign Desk] 
Bennhold, Katrin.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]28 Feb 2018: A.1. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Germany%27s+Car+Capital+Reels+As+Court+Allows+Ban+on+Cars%3A+%5B 02-28&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Bennhold%2C+Katrin&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
STUTTGART, Germany -- The star of Daimler shines bright over Stuttgart. The giant illuminated emblem of its most famous car, the Mercedes, towers above the main train station, greeting visitors. It is visible for miles. 
"As soon as you arrive," said Manfred Niess, a retired teacher and local environmental activist, "you know who rules here." 
Now, though, Daimler and other automakers in Stuttgart are facing a startling new reality: It may soon be illegal for some to drive a Mercedes in this city, where the local soccer club plays in the Mercedes-Benz stadium. 
On Tuesday, a German court ruled that Stuttgart, one of the country's most polluted cities, can ban diesel cars from driving in downtown areas to improve air quality. The ruling could ultimately lead to bans in a host of cities in Germany, a country with millions of diesel cars on the streets. Unlike in the United States, where diesel cars are the exception, in Germany roughly one in three passenger vehicles runs on diesel. 
"It is the latest wake-up call for the German auto industry and German politicians," said Christoph Bals, policy director of Germanwatch, an advocacy and research group for clean energy. "And this time it might actually force them to change their ways." 
The ruling highlights a strange bipolar quality of Germany when it comes to the environment: Famous for its meticulous recycling, its decision to abandon nuclear power and its subsidies for wind and solar energy, Germany has long had a reputation for being a green powerhouse, and it now draws roughly a third of its electricity production from renewable sources. Chancellor Angela Merkel has been nicknamed the "climate chancellor." 
But Ms. Merkel also has lobbied in Brussels for softer emissions targets and has so far refused to set a date for exiting coal production. Germany's carbon emissions have not declined in about a decade. Having reiterated a target to cut carbon emissions by 40 percent by 2020 as recently as last summer, Ms. Merkel recently admitted that it will in fact be missed by a wide margin. 
On the question of diesel bans, she has long taken the side of the industry. "We will use all our power to prevent such bans," she told Parliament ahead of elections last September. 
"She is the No. 1 lobbyist for the car industry," said Jürgen Resch of Deutsche Umwelthilfe, the nonprofit environmental organization that won the court ruling on Tuesday. "In other countries the commerce minister might lobby for the car industry; in Germany it is the chancellor." 
The ruling came as the German car industry is still struggling to emerge from an ongoing global emissions scandal that forced Volkswagen to pay more than $26 billion in fines and plead guilty to federal fraud and conspiracy charges in the United States. The company admitted to manipulating pollution controls on vehicles so that they could pass laboratory emissions tests, even as the cars continued to far exceed pollution standards on the road. 
In few cities is the country's environmental schizophrenia more stark than Stuttgart, capital of the wealthy state of Baden-Württemberg. 
The Daimler star was visible on Tuesday, but so were brightly lit electronic signs across the city that declared a "particulate-matter alarm" and urged residents to leave their cars at home. 
On days like this, a yellowish cloud hangs over Stuttgart. Regional courts here and in Düsseldorf, two of 19 cities where the environmental organization is suing, had ruled that diesel bans were a viable way to bring down harmful and illegal levels of air pollution. Diesel engines emit small particles and nitrogen dioxide that have been linked to cancer and more than 12,000 of premature deaths in Germany, experts say. Local authorities appealed the rulings, but on Tuesday the Federal Administrative Court rejected those appeals. 
Industry leaders were stunned. Daimler declined to comment, but other carmakers expressed bewilderment. Volkswagen "is unable to comprehend" the ruling, a company statement said. "It threatens to produce a regulatory hodgepodge in Germany, which is unsettling for millions of motorists." 
The Mechanical Engineering Industry Association, whose members include car-parts makers and other companies in the automotive supply chain, said in a statement that "driving bans for diesel vehicles are the wrong way to solve a problem that arises in very particular locations under very particular conditions." 
Gottlieb Daimler famously invented one of the first cars here in his garden in 1886. It is now home to Daimler and Porsche and Bosch, the world's biggest car-part maker. Roughly one in five jobs in the region depends on the industry. School classes flock to the Daimler museum. Concert lovers attend performances at the Porsche arena. Once a year, Formula 1 drivers meet locals at the "Stars in Cars" festival. The vast majority of taxis in the city are Mercedeses -- fueled by diesel. 
But Stuttgart, nestled in a basin framed by vineyards and forested hills, also has a long tradition of hiking clubs and solar panels on its rooftops. The city has a Green mayor, who drives an electric car, and has been governed by a coalition led by the Greens since 2011. It also has a vibrant local environmental movement, which has been protesting a multiyear, multibillion euro project in the heart of the city to move the main train station underground. 
Outraged at the sprawling and polluting building site, known as "Stuttgart 21," residents have been demonstrating every Monday for seven years. 
This week, on the eve of the diesel ruling, as air pollution measurements reached twice the level permitted under European standards, the 406th protest took place. Braving subzero temperatures, Mr. Resch, the man who filed the driving ban lawsuit, addressed a small but noisy crowd. 
"In Baden-Württemberg it's not the people who decide," he shouted to loud cheers, "it's the car industry!" 
The state's transport minister, Winfried Hermann of the Greens, says he sympathizes. Whenever politicians demand action on automobile emissions, he said, a familiar pattern is repeated. "We say, clean up your technology, they say it is impossible," he said. 
Mr. Hermann has been increasing suburban train services and bus lines to fight pollution and also wants to create a 7,000-kilometer network of bike paths. But he knows it is an uphill battle. 
"The people who make cars want to drive them, too," he said. "It's professional pride. To a certain extent, it is identity." 
A short journey from the city center, in one of the many Daimler factories dotted around Stuttgart, Andreas Klatt, a machinist who has worked for Daimler for almost four decades, proudly showed off his company ID badge. 
"This gives you special standing, it gives you respect," he said, describing how working for the company has helped him secure bank loans. 
This January, the company sold the most cars in its history, Mr. Klatt proudly recounted. Last year, he got a 5,700-euro bonus. This year it might be even more. Mr. Klatt works 35 hours a week, has seven weeks of annual vacation and makes close to 80,000 euros a year. 
"Working for Daimler is like winning the lottery," he said. 
Wolfgang Nieke, a member of the powerful IG Metall labor union at Daimler, once worked on the factory floor but is now one of 10 employee representatives on the company's supervisory board. Workers and bosses fight over pay. But they both oppose a diesel ban. 
"It's like changing the offside rule in the middle of the soccer match," Mr. Nieke said. "You can't do that." 
Some 150,000 people work for Daimler and more than 60,000 of them drive a Mercedes, he said. Daimler employees get 21.5 percent discount when they buy an in-house brand. 
"What about all those who bought a diesel three years ago?" Mr. Nieke asked. "And now you want to tell them that they can't drive their car?" 
Mr. Niess, the retired teacher and environmental activist, has won three court cases against the city for not upholding air quality standards. Once, he owned a diesel-powered car, having bought it after being told it had lower carbon emissions than a regular gas-powered car. "I bought it because they told me it was good for climate change," he recalled. 
"We have all been fooled by the car industry," he said. 
These days, Mr. Niess only bikes in the city. He lives around the corner from Neckartor, long one of the most polluted areas in the country. Stuttgart exceeded safe pollution levels 45 days last year, down from 63 days the year before. But the European Union ceiling is 35 days. 
More than a century ago, Mr. Daimler predicted that there would never be more than a million cars in the world. These days, that number passes Neckartor roughly every two weeks. 
The mayor of Stuttgart, Fritz Kuhn, says the only way to reconcile the dependence on the car industry for jobs and export revenues is to build clean cars. 
"Economic history is littered with examples where protecting today's jobs destroys tomorrow's," he said. Stuttgart knows this first hand: A once-thriving and highly skilled watchmaking industry failed to keep up with modernization and largely died out. The only thing left are the handcrafted cuckoo clocks. 
"If Germany wants to continue to dominate the car industry, it needs to become a champion of electric cars and sustainable mobility and autonomous cars," Mr. Kuhn said. 
He drives an electric Smart. Made by Daimler. 
Credit: KATRIN BENNHOLD; Christopher F. Schuetze contributed reporting from Berlin. 
AuthorAffiliation 
Follow Katrin Bennhold on Twitter: @kbennhold. 
Photograph 
Clockwise from top: the star of Daimler's most famous car, the Mercedes, above the main train station in Stuttgart, Germany; a particulate-matter alert in the city on Tuesday; 
Wolfgang Nieke, left, a union official, with workers on the production line at Daimler. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GORDON WELTERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A6) 
Copyright New York Times Company Feb 28, 2018 

Subject 	Bans; 

Automobile industry; 

Local elections; 
Court decisions; 
Clean technology; 

Emissions; 

Carbon; 
Electric vehicles; 
Automobiles; 
Air pollution; 

Outdoor air quality; 
Labor unions; 

Diesel engines; 
Nitrogen dioxide; 
Litigation; 

Cities 


Location  Stuttgart Germany; Germany  
Company / organization  Name:  Volkswagen AG  
NAICS:  336111, 336390  

URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/27/world/europe/diesel-driving-ban-germany-stuttgart.html  
Title  Germany's Car Capital Reels As Court Allows Ban on Cars: [Foreign Desk]  
Author  Bennhold, Katrin  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.1  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Feb 28, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2008724692  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2008724692?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Feb 28, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-08  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 163 of 236 


How They Changed Their Minds About Global Warming: [National Desk] 
Albeck-Ripka, Livia.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]22 Feb 2018: A.11. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=How+They+Changed+Their+Minds+About+Global+Warming%3A+%5BNational+ 02-22&volume=&issue=&spage=A.11&au=Albeck-Ripka%2C+Livia&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
The Rev. Richard Cizik used to believe climate change was a myth. The science had to be rigged, he thought; those who believed in it were just tree-huggers. But in 2002, a friend convinced Mr. Cizik to go to a conference about climate change, and there, he said, "the scales came off my eyes." 
Nearly 70 percent of Americans now say that climate change is caused mainly by human activity, the highest percentage since Gallup began tracking it two decades ago. The number of Americans who say they worry "a great deal" about climate change has risen by about 20 percentage points. 
But people don't change their minds easily about controversial issues. So what is behind this trend? 
Anthony Leiserowitz, the director of the Yale Program on Climate Change Communication, said Americans' opinions about global warming have fluctuated over the years, shifting along with partisan fissures, extreme weather events and messages from political and religious figures. But the overall upward trend in opinion, he said, was strongly tied to the fact that more people are beginning to relate to climate change as a personal issue. 
There are certainly many Americans who remain undecided or doubtful. Toby Wilder, a salesman from Seattle, said he found it hard to imagine that human-caused climate change was anything but a hoax propagated by elites who fly private jets. "If they are wasting more fuel in a month than I do in my lifetime, then how can I believe it?" he asked. 
Greg Sandmeyer, a social studies teacher at Timberline High School in Boise, Idaho, is also unconvinced. "It's one thing to say it's happening, but it's another to make laws that will affect me," he said. 
But the broader shift in public opinion, however gradual, has moved toward acceptance of human-caused global warming. In order to learn more about the attitudes that are fueling this change, we spoke with dozens of people. Here are six of their stories. 
The Meteorologist 
Jennifer Rukavina, 38, Paducah, Ky. 
When Jennifer Rukavina became a television meteorologist, she noticed her colleagues were divided into two camps: believers and nonbelievers. Ms. Rukavina didn't know at first which camp she fell into, but she certainly wasn't "convinced" about climate change. 
As a group, meteorologists are no more or less likely than the general public to say that humans are the primary cause of climate change. In the early 2000s, when Ms. Rukavina began her career, Al Gore, the former vice president and climate change activist, had just released his film "An Inconvenient Truth." The split among her colleagues, Ms. Rukavina said, was largely focused around the political "theater" surrounding the film, which experts often describe as a flash point in the deepening partisan divide on climate change. 
"I decided that I needed to educate myself, because the meteorologist is often viewed as the station scientist," Ms. Rukavina said. In 2008, she attended her first Glen Gerberg Weather and Climate Summit -- a meeting of weathercasters and climate scientists -- in Colorado. After hearing from the scientists themselves, Ms. Rukavina said, she changed her mind. 
"I am a registered Republican, but I don't let politics dictate what good science is to me," she said. Every year since, Ms. Rukavina has briefed her WPSD viewers live from the conference. "It really doesn't matter to me what my viewers think of climate change," she said. "What matters to me most is being able to prepare them for the changes that lie ahead." 
The Retired Coal Miner 
Stanley Sturgill, 72, Harlan County, Ky. 
When Stanley Sturgill first learned about global warming in the early 1990s, he was working as a federal coal mine inspector in Lynch, Ky. Mr. Sturgill, who worked 41 years in the coal mines before retiring in 2009, said he was "disheartened and sickened" when he understood the full extent to which human beings were damaging the environment. But he kept quiet on the issue, for fear of losing his job. 
"That's why I got into trying to stop it just as quick as I retired," he said. "You can hold your nose and do a lot of things, and that's what I had to do." 
Late last year, Mr. Sturgill, who now describes himself as a climate change activist, testified at a public hearing held by the Environmental Protection Agency in Charleston, W.Va. 

He also spoke at the 2014 People's Climate March in New York. 
Mr. Sturgill now has black lung and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease from his years spent in the mines, he said. "I knew we were polluting the Earth, but it took time to 
have a full understanding that what goes around comes around," he said. 

The Community Organizer 
Valencia Gunder, 33, Miami 
Growing up in Liberty City, Valencia Gunder never thought about climate change. The neighborhood, one of the poorest in Miami, had other "social ills" to deal with, she said. 
"You wouldn't hear anybody talking about climate change," Ms. Gunder said. "Not at all." 
But in recent years, Liberty City -- roughly two miles from the coast and on higher ground than other parts of Miami -- has become more attractive to developers, who talk 

about the neighborhood as "future beachfront property," Ms. Gunder said. "They're coming in, putting in multimillion-dollar investments. We're like a candy shop." 
It wasn't until a community meeting in 2016, however, that Ms. Gunder first heard the term "climate gentrification." Something clicked, she said. "Climate change and sea level 

rise is causing individuals to have to abandon their shore-front homes in more affluent communities and go inland, and the communities inland are lower-income communities," 
she said. "That was like, 'Oh my goodness, wait a minute."' 
After that meeting, Ms. Gunder trained to speak on behalf of a local climate activism group, the CLEO Institute, and has since run more than a dozen workshops educating some 

of Miami's lowest-income communities about the ways climate change could affect them personally. Ms. Gunder often finds herself speaking to a room full of people who may 
have never heard about climate change. "Their minds are always blown," she said. 
The Evangelical Leader 

Richard Cizik, 66, Fredericksburg, Va. 
In 2002, the Rev. Richard Cizik would have described himself as "a faithful member of the religious right," he said. So when the Rev. Jim Ball, a founder of the Evangelical 
Environmental Network, invited him to a climate change conference that year, Mr. Cizik was hesitant. 

"I heard the evidence over four days, did a fist to the forehead and thought, 'Oh my gosh, if this is true, everything has changed,"' said Mr. Cizik, who was then vice president for government affairs at the National Association of Evangelicals. "I liken it to a religious conversion, and not just because I saw something I'd never seen before -- I felt a deep sense of repentance." 
But a few years later, when Mr. Cizik began encouraging his fellow evangelicals to learn more about climate change, he was ostracized. Dozens of community leaders signed a petition for his firing. "Ostensibly it was over my supporting civil unions, but the real reality was that the right didn't like my position on climate change," Mr. Cizik said. "The entire religious right just attacked me. It was pretty aggressive." 
Mr. Cizik and his wife sold a car, started recycling and modified parts of their home to be more environmentally friendly, he said. They began to do what they thought God was calling them to do: change their minds. "If you've never changed your mind about something, pinch yourself, you may be dead," Mr. Cizik said. "If we don't change our mind about this subject, we will die." 
The Charter Fleet Owner Lynne Foster, 70, Hatteras Island, N.C. For 25 years, Lynne Foster and her husband, Ernie, have run the Albatross Fleet, a charter fishing operation on Hatteras Island in North Carolina's Outer Banks, trolling the Gulf 
Stream for mahi-mahi, yellowfin tuna and wahoo. 
"We live in a very dynamic natural environment and things are constantly changing," Ms. Foster said. But when the roads in Hatteras began to flood more often, the coast began to erode and uprooted trees floated down Pamlico Sound, Ms. Foster knew something was different, she said. Watching the southern end of Hatteras Island all but "float away," she said, changed her mind about climate change. "It's hard to live here, and watch so many natural changes 
take place, and not blame human activity." 
In recent years, rising seas have ravaged the Outer Banks, but Ms. Foster said many people in her community still don't discuss why. "There are some who do not believe it on principle, even though they can see it with their own eyes," she said, "but they don't put a name to it." The Mayor Tomás Regalado, 70, Miami When Tomás Regalado, a Republican, was elected mayor of Miami in November 2009, climate change was not on his agenda. At the time Mr. Regalado thought that sea level 
rise was "a very distant future possibility," and that talking about it was a waste of time, he said. 
But Mr. Regalado's son Jose had his own agenda. Early one morning during his father's second term as mayor, he made him a cup of coffee and sat him down, with a map, to talk about climate change. "I realized that if this was happening somewhere in the Pacific, well, it could happen here," Mr. Regalado said. When Hurricane Irma hit Miami, Mr. Regalado witnessed the vulnerability of his city firsthand. "I think I really understood when I saw people trying to get to their cars, and their 
cars were flooded," he said. "They were stranded." 
Late last year, as Mr. Regalado was leaving office, Miami voters supported his idea for a $400 million bond, half of which is dedicated to protecting the city from sea level rise and climate change. "I think it's a clear message to Washington that the majority of people in Miami at least understand and see this as a nonpartisan issue," Mr. Regalado said. This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 

Illustration 
DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY LOUISA BERTMAN) Copyright New York Times Company Feb 22, 2018 
Subject  Global warming;  
Coal mining;  
Mines;  
Public hearings;  
Studies;  
Climate change;  
Sea level  
Title  How They Changed Their Minds About Global Warming: [National Desk]  
Author  Albeck-Ripka, Livia  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.11  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Feb 22, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2007010932  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2007010932?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Feb 22, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-07  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 164 of 236 


Coal's Continuing Decline: [Commentary] 
Nesbit, Jeff.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]20 Feb 2018: A.19. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Coal%27s+Continuing+Decline%3A+%5BCommentary%5D&title=New+York+ 02-20&volume=&issue=&spage=A.19&au=Nesbit%2C+Jeff&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Three signal flares went up for the American coal industry recently, all illuminating an inescapable conclusion: Despite President Trump's campaign promise, coal-fired power is in trouble and in all likelihood won't be reasserting itself in the United States. Nor should it. 
The first signal, from the medical community, should give champions of "beautiful, clean coal" like Mr. Trump and his energy secretary, Rick Perry, pause. A research letter published in the Journal of the American Medical Association on Feb. 6 said that health professionals in Appalachian coal country were now finding the highest levels of black lung disease in coal miners ever reported. 
The Coal Workers' Health Surveillance Program, administered by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, or Niosh, has offered regular chest radiographs for coal miners since 1970. By the late 1990s, black lung disease was "rarely identified" among miners participating in the program, researchers wrote. But a spike in cases in 2014, first reported by National Public Radio, prompted the federal agency to take a closer look at patients at three federally funded black lung clinics in southwest Virginia. 
The agency was stunned by what it found. Black lung cases in Appalachia coal miners in those three clinics had skyrocketed. The disease was more severe. And coal miners were dying much younger than they had been two decades ago. 
From January 2013 to February 2017, the Niosh researchers documented 416 coal miners among about 11,200 observed during the study with the most deadly form of the disease, progressive massive fibrosis, an advanced stage of black lung disease caused by inhalation of coal and silica dust at underground and surface coal mines. Miners with this advanced disease gradually lose the ability to breathe. 
"We are seeing something that we haven't seen before," Ron Carson told NPR. He directs the black lung program for Stone Mountain Health Services, which treats coal miners from Kentucky, Virginia and West Virginia. The program went from seeing five to seven cases a year when it first opened in 1990 to 154 cases in the past year. 
The reasons behind this sharp rise are complicated. But according to an NPR investigation, the most likely causes are the miners' working longer hours and their exposure to deadlier silica dust from cutting into rock to extract coal from thinner, harder-to-reach seams. The days of mining for readily available coal are long gone. It's more difficult, and seemingly more costly to miners' health, to extract coal in Appalachia now. 
In 2014, a federal rule went into effect to improve protections for miners, including decreased allowable dust concentrations, but as the researchers noted, "Whether these added protections will decrease severe occupational lung disease in coal miners requires continued surveillance." 
The second signal is subtle, but more damning. Despite the president's oft-repeated claim that coal-fired electricity generation is making a comeback, there is likely to be a significant number of retirements of coal plants this year, according to an assessment by the consulting firm S&P Global Marketplace Intelligence. 
"Troubling economics have proven difficult to overcome, with low wholesale power and natural gas prices being the main contributing factors squeezing margins," S&P Global's assessment said. It added, "Coupling this unfavorable operating environment with an increasingly gas-, wind- and solar-focused resource mix going into the future will likely only continue to lower the need for an aging coal fleet." 
Many of the coming coal retirements this year will happen in states President Trump won in 2016. A notable example is the Texas utility Vistra Energy, which said in October 2017 that it planned to retire three coal-fired power plants with a combined capacity of more than 4,000 megawatts. In Florida, the 1,252-megawatt St. Johns River plant shut down in early January, mainly because of market conditions. The utility plans to replace the coal plant's output with nuclear, natural gas and solar resources. 
This development is in line with the findings of a report published last fall by the Union of Concerned Scientists, which concluded that "coal-fired power has become increasingly uneconomic and is the main factor driving the U.S. electricity sector to rapidly transition away from coal." 
The third signal came from Mr. Trump's Energy Department. After the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission rejected a proposal from Mr. Perry, the energy secretary, last month to subsidize struggling coal and nuclear plants, he has apparently been exploring a new route to bail out coal companies like Murray Energy Corporation, whose owner, Bob Murray, is an important donor to the president. 
Bloomberg reported recently that Mr. Perry was considering Energy Department payments to utilities like First Energy (which buys coal from Mr. Murray's company) to store coal reserves; that suggests that some coal companies might not survive without a federal bailout. A department spokesman said the report was not accurate, but when asked whether the agency could take its own action to keep coal and nuclear plants from retiring, the energy under secretary, Mark Menezes, told Bloomberg: "We have authorities that we can use when the need arises. They're well known. And we'll use them if we need to." 
What seems clear from all three cases is that the coal industry isn't coming back. At best, Mr. Trump's administration can keep it on life support with taxpayer-funded bailouts. He should be embracing a clean, renewable energy future instead. 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 

AuthorAffiliation 
Jeff Nesbit is the executive director of Climate Nexus, a nonprofit communications group focused on climate change and clean energy, and author of the forthcoming book "This Is the Way the World Ends." 
Copyright New York Times Company Feb 20, 2018 
Subject  Bailouts; Studies; Electricity generation; Coal industry; Coal mining; Researchers; Presidents; Lung diseases; Coal-fired power plants; Surveillance; Natural gas prices; Energy policy  
Location  United States--US  
People  Trump, Donald J; Perry, Rick  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Department of Energy 926130;  
Name: NAICS:  Vistra Energy Corp 221112, 221122;  
Name: NAICS:  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission--FERC 926110, 926130  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/19/opinion/trump-coal-decline.html  
Title  Coal's Continuing Decline: [Commentary]  
Author  Nesbit, Jeff  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.19  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Feb 20, 2018  
column  Op-Ed Contributor  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  

Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  2003275980  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2003275980?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Feb 20, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-07  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 165 of 236 


Vietnam Pulls Its Request For U.S. Aid on Coal Plant: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Ives, Mike.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]13 Feb 2018: B.5. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Vietnam+Pulls+Its+Request+For+U.S.+Aid+on+Coal+Plant%3A+%5BBusiness% 02-13&volume=&issue=&spage=B.5&au=Ives%2C+Mike&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
HONG KONG -- A Vietnamese company is no longer seeking American financial support to build a coal-fired power plant in Vietnam, bringing to an abrupt end a closely watched 
test of whether Washington would back international projects that could potentially contribute to climate change. 
On Thursday, the Export-Import Bank of the United States, a lender run by the American government, said the Vietnamese state-controlled company, PetroVietnam, had 
withdrawn its application for financial support. 

The lender, also known as the Ex-Im Bank, takes on the financial risk for American companies exporting high-value equipment and merchandise as a way to help companies in 

the United States win valuable international business. 
In this case, a green light would have allowed PetroVietnam to purchase millions of dollars' worth of turbines and other equipment from General Electric, the American 
manufacturer. 

It isn't clear why PetroVietnam withdrew the application for American financial support for the Vietnamese coal plant, Long Phu 1. But the project, which is already under 

construction, faced intense criticism inside and outside the United States. 
Environmental and other groups said the project would have had a greater environmental impact than reports submitted by PetroVietnam had suggested. More broadly, the 
application raised the question of whether the Trump administration's commitment to using more coal at home would extend abroad. 

The World Bank and other major institutions have increasingly avoided backing projects supported by developing countries that burn coal and other fossil fuels, which emit greenhouse gases that contribute to climate change. The United Kingdom's version of the Ex-Im Bank had declined to offer financial support for the Long Phu 1 project for similar reasons. 
In addition, the project is partly financed by Vnesheconombank, a Kremlin-connected Russian lender that has been subject to American sanctions since 2014 because of Moscow's military intervention in Ukraine. On Jan. 26, the United States Treasury Department expanded its Russia sanctions to include Power Machines, a Russian firm that is one of several construction companies with contracts at Long Phu 1. 
The Ex-Im Bank said in a statement that it had not yet completed its due diligence review of Long Phu 1 when the application was withdrawn. It also did not specify a date for the withdrawal and referred further questions to PetroVietnam. 
Emails sent to two PetroVietnam officials on Sunday were not immediately returned. 
General Electric said in a statement on Saturday that it complies with Americans sanctions, including those announced by the Treasury Department in January. It added that it 
was committed to working with its "partners and customers in Vietnam to deliver world-class products and solutions for the power industry." 

The New York Times described the Long Phu 1 project and the views of its critics in a Jan. 26 article. 

The project's Vietnamese backers face broader challenges. A Vietnamese court last month sentenced PetroVietnam's former chairman to prison as part of a broad anticorruption 
investigation. 
Vietnam's ruling Communist Party sees coal as central to national energy needs. Long Phu 1 would be the first element of a three-plant complex in a rural area about 150 miles 

southwest of the country's economic hub, Ho Chi Minh City. 

Vietnam may plow ahead with the project without the United States or G.E. The project could still be completed without support from the American government, said Basav 
Sen, the climate policy director at the Institute for Policy Studies, a left-learning think tank in Washington that opposed the plant. 
He added that it did not represent a retreat by the Trump administration, which has been generally more supportive of coal projects at home. 
"It was easy for the Ex-Im Bank to back out of this project in Vietnam because the power plant was going to get its coal from Indonesia and Australia," said Mr. Sen. "It may 

have been a different story if the project were a market for U.S. coal exports." Copyright New York Times Company Feb 13, 2018 
Subject  Coal-fired power plants; Sanctions; Environmental policy; Climate change  
Location  Russia; New York; United States--US; Vietnam; United Kingdom--UK; Australia; Indonesia; Ukraine  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  New York Times Co 511110, 511120, 515112, 515120;  
Name: NAICS:  Export-Import Bank of the United States 522298;  
Name: NAICS:  International Bank for Reconstruction & Development--World Bank 928120;  
Name: NAICS:  Vietnam Oil & Gas Group 211111;  
Name: NAICS:  Institute for Policy Studies 541720;  
Name: NAICS:  Vnesheconombank 522110;  
Name: NAICS:  General Electric Co 332510, 334290, 334512, 334519  
URL  https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/11/business/us-exim-vietnam-coal.html  
Title  Vietnam Pulls Its Request For U.S. Aid on Coal Plant: [Business/Financial Desk]  
Author  Ives, Mike  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.5  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Feb 13, 2018  
Section  B  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2001291956  

Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2001291956?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Feb 13, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-07  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 166 of 236 


In China's Coal Country, Shivering for Cleaner Air: [Foreign Desk] 
Steven Lee Myers.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]11 Feb 2018: A.5. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=In+China%27s+Coal+Country%2C+Shivering+for+Cleaner+Air%3A+%5BForeig 02-11&volume=&issue=&spage=A.5&au=Steven+Lee+Myers&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
QIAOLI, China -- A monument to China's efforts to wean itself from coal rises on the outskirts of this village deep in the heart of the nation's coal country. 
Scores of old coal stoves have been dumped in a lot, removed by government decree in recent months in favor of cleaner-burning natural gas furnaces. 
"Defend blue sky and breathe together," an exhortation painted on the brick wall surrounding the lot says. "Manage haze and work together." 
China has long faced skepticism over its pledges to wage a "war on pollution" and end its unrestrained burning of coal. And indeed, demand for coal rose again last year after declining the previous three years. 
This coal-stove graveyard, however, is a manifestation of China's ambitious effort this winter to all but end its dependence on coal for heating homes and businesses in hopes of clearing up the country's eye-watering, throat-scraping pollution. The central government has set specific targets and backed up its decrees with threats of fines and other punishments. 
What has happened here in the northern Chinese province of Shanxi, the country's largest coal-producing region, and in other regions shows how far the government has gone in imposing its environmentalism from above. Eager to impress Beijing, officials in this province of 37 million people have moved so aggressively that in some cases they have created unintended consequences. 
Many coal stoves were removed before new furnaces were installed, leaving tens of thousands of people shivering without heat when winter's first cold snap arrived earlier than normal. Then, with so many districts switching to natural gas at once, demand for the new source of fuel overwhelmed supplies, sending prices soaring and creating shortages. 
The benefits of the government's campaign are nonetheless being felt in the comparatively blue skies that have blessed Beijing and other cities that were a focus of the authorities' efforts, including in Shanxi's provincial capital, Taiyuan. 
Longer term, the impact could be felt globally, too, backing up President Xi Jinping's pledge to put China in the "driving seat in international cooperation to respond to climate change" by reducing emissions at a time when the United States under President Trump has treated the issue dismissively. 
"It's definitely had a major impact on air quality already, and it's going to have a major impact on coal production in the future," said Lauri Myllyvirta, an energy analyst with Greenpeace in Beijing. 
"There's a plan to carry out these policies over a much larger area," he went on, adding that the accomplishments thus far "took a huge amount of determination." 
Household and commercial users of coal represent only about 6 percent of China's total, but they do not have the filtering systems of bigger coal users, mainly government power plants. That means that reducing use of coal in homes and businesses has a disproportionately large effect in reducing coal-related emissions. 
"The emissions are much, much higher, so conversely, the air pollution benefits are much greater," Peter Fraser, the head of the gas, coal and power markets division of the International Energy Agency in Paris, said in an interview. 
China's plan -- announced last March and intensified in August -- demonstrated the power of centralized authority but also the bureaucratic shortcomings in Beijing's decrees. 
Greenpeace mapped thousands of complaints about heating from social media posts. One photograph that circulated widely online before being censored showed a school in Hebei Province, southwest of Beijing, holding classes outside in the sun because the heating was not working inside. 
The outcry was such that the government took the unusual step of reversing a decree and easing the restrictions somewhat, allowing places with heating failures to resume using coal. In Beijing, the authorities had to abandon, at least temporarily, a heavily promoted policy to end all municipal coal use, and restart a coal-fired power plant in the southeast suburbs. Hebei, the province that surrounds Beijing, has delayed a full transition from coal until 2020. 
Huang Miaoru, who follows China for Wood Mackenzie, the energy consultancy, said that China's transition this winter was bedeviled by many factors. Overzealous regional officials -- eager to impress their national superiors, or afraid of disappointing them -- had teamed up with private energy companies to convert more homes than supply could meet. (Nationally, natural gas demand surged 16 percent in 2017, according to a report by the Rhodium Group, a New York-based consultancy.) 
Despite the setbacks, neither she nor others said they expected the government to retreat from its goal to reduce coal use after decades in which industrialization took precedence over the environment. Last month, the Ministry of Environmental Protection announced plans to reduce pollution still further by 2020. 
What is striking is the public support for the changes, which address nearly universal concerns in China about the impact of choking pollution on health and quality of life. 
A ban on coal appears welcome even here in coal country. The Coal Museum of China, in Taiyuan, celebrates the resource, declaring in an introductory film shown to visitors, "We should cherish this hard-won treasure." 
Even so, the province shut 27 coal mines last year. Taiyuan also banned the sale, transport or use of coal by individuals or small businesses. In Qiaoli, a small village surrounded by orchards and fields, yellow pipes to carry natural gas now snake around old brick houses, fueling heaters that the local government installed at no expense to the residents. 
The village is on the outskirts of Linfen, an industrial city of 4.4 million which was once ranked among the world's most heavily polluted cities, a consequence of the unregulated boom of steel and other industries locating factories close to their fuel source. Like much of northeastern China, even this region has enjoyed an unusual respite from the smog. 
Li Lihu, a retiree who lives in a second-floor apartment in an enclosed courtyard, called the shift from coal a sign of China's progress. He said people in the area welcomed the relief from air pollution as much as, if not more than, residents in Beijing, where the smog was a national disgrace only a year ago. 
According to Mr. Myllyvirta of Greenpeace, the pollution in Shanxi -- as measured by the concentration of PM 2.5, or particulate matter of a size deemed especially harmful -­dropped 20 percent in the last three months of 2017, after the start of the campaign to remove coal stoves, compared with the same period the year before. In Beijing, the drop was nearly 54 percent for the same period. 
To be sure, many Shanxi residents complained that the cost of heating their homes with gas furnaces or electric heaters was now much higher. Often they did so while wearing winter coats, hats and scarves indoors. 
For some, the cost was prohibitively expensive. According to one shopkeeper, it now costs nearly as much to heat her place each month, about $400, as the average monthly wage in the province, one of China's poorest, about $650. 
As a retiree, Mr. Li said he receives a subsidy from the local government. "As long as the government keeps subsidizing it, it will be O.K.," he said, carrying a plastic bag of chicken feet for his lunch. "If they stop next year, nobody will be able to use it to keep warm." 
Coal is now effectively contraband in Qiaoli, though some residents continue to use it, claiming the local authorities granted a reprieve until the Chinese New Year later this month. 
"You're not going to report us, are you?" asked one villager who was unloading chunks of coal in the enclosed courtyard of his home. His wife cheerfully showed how she still uses coal to feed the stove that warms the brick platform bed, or "kang," that is a traditional feature of homes in northern China. 
Then he asked that he be identified only by his last name, Zhang, for fear of reprisals by the authorities for not using the newly installed gas heater instead. In at least two cases already, residents in the province were arrested after burning or selling coal, signaling the authorities' seriousness in enforcing the decrees here. 
As for most things banned, a black market has materialized. Mr. Zhang bought his coal behind a row of seemingly abandoned workshops outside of the village. A woman sweeping up coal dust in this makeshift market angrily shooed away three journalists who appeared, refusing to answer questions. 
"The government is still very keen to clean up the energy market," said Ms. Huang, the analyst with Wood Mackenzie, "but we think because of the problems posed this winter they'll take a more gradual approach in the future." 
Follow Steven Lee Myers on Twitter: @stevenleemyers. 
Credit: STEVEN LEE MYERS; Keith Bradsher contributed reporting from Paris. Olivia Mitchell Ryan contributed research. 

Photograph 
A black market coal store in Qiaoli, China. Coal is now effectively contraband under an ambitious government effort to all but end China's dependence on it for heating homes and businesses.; A graveyard for coal stoves in Qiaoli, where thousands went without heat before new gas furnaces were installed.; Liu Shiqing, 78, a Qiaoli resident who switched to electricity, a coal alternative many say is far more expensive. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GILLES SABRIÉ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP Copyright New York Times Company Feb 11, 2018 
Subject 	Bans; 

Emissions; 

Social networks; 
Air pollution; 

Heat; 
Coal-fired power plants; 
Black markets; 

Outdoor air quality; 
Local government; 
Environmental protection; 
Energy industry; 

Industrial plant emissions; 

Natural gas 


Location 	Beijing China; New York; China 
Company / organization 	Name: Greenpeace 

NAICS: 813312, 813940 


URL 	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/10/world/asia/china-coal-smog-pollution.html 
Title 	In China's Coal Country, Shivering for Cleaner Air: [Foreign Desk] 
Author  Steven Lee Myers  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.5  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Feb 11, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2000698032  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2000698032?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Feb 11, 2018  
Last updated  2018-11-07  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 167 of 236 


Trump Drops His Nominee To Be Adviser On Climate: [National Desk] 
Friedman, Lisa.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]05 Feb 2018: A.13. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Trump+Drops+His+Nominee+To+Be+Adviser+On+Climate%3A+%5BNational+D 02-05&volume=&issue=&spage=A.13&au=Friedman%2C+Lisa&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Want the latest climate news in your inbox? You can sign up here to receive Climate Fwd:, our new email newsletter. 
WASHINGTON -- The Trump administration plans to withdraw its nomination of Kathleen Hartnett White, a climate change skeptic, to lead the Council on Environmental Quality, a White House official said. 
President Trump in October appointed Ms. White, a former Texas environmental regulator who has said that carbon dioxide should be considered the "gas of life" rather than a pollutant, to be the White House senior environmental adviser. Carbon dioxide emissions contribute to global warming. 
The Senate Environment and Public Works Committee approved Ms. White on a party-line vote, but her nomination languished at the end of 2017. That was in part, lawmakers acknowledged, because of Ms. White's performance at her hearing in which she not only espoused controversial views on climate change but also stumbled over science questions. 
When Senator Ben Cardin, a Democrat from Maryland, asked Ms. White if she believes climate change is real, she said "I am uncertain." She then corrected herself saying, "No, I'm not. I jumped ahead. Climate change is of course real." She then added she was uncertain about the extent to which humans cause climate change. 
When Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, a Democrat of Rhode Island, asked Ms. White to estimate how much heat in Earth's atmosphere is stored in the oceans, she replied "I don't have numbers like that," adding, "I believe that there are differences of opinions on that, that there's not one right answer." 
The most up-to-date scientific assessment on climate change, released by the Trump administration in November, found that the world's oceans have absorbed "about 93 percent of the excess heat caused by greenhouse gas warming since the mid-20th century, making them warmer and altering global and regional climate feedbacks." 
Democrats also assailed Ms. White's writings in which she called renewable energy "unreliable and parasitic," described global warming as "a creed, a faith, a dogma that has little to do with science," and asserted that science does not dictate policy in democracies. 
President Trump resubmitted Ms. White's nomination to the Senate last month but now plans to withdraw it because of worries that the votes aren't there, the White House official said. The official was not authorized to discuss personnel decisions and spoke on the condition of anonymity. The Washington Post on Saturday reported the White House decision to withdraw the nomination. 
Democrats and environmental activists hailed the decision. "Withdrawing Kathleen Hartnett White's nomination is the right thing to do," Senator Tom Carper of Delaware, the top Democrat on the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, said in a statement. He said the Council on Environmental Quality should have a "thoughtful environmental and public health champion" to lead it. 
Sara Chieffo, vice president for government affairs at the League of Conservation Voters, blasted Ms. White as an "anti-science extremist" and called the decision a "victory for science." 
Ms. White could not be reached for comment. The Texas Public Policy Foundation, a free-market think tank where Ms. White currently serves as a senior fellow, also could not immediately be reached. 
Withdrawing Ms. White's name may clear the way for Senate consideration of other environmental nominees. That includes Andrew R. Wheeler, a coal lobbyist, to be deputy administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. 
Follow @NYTClimate on Twitter 
Photograph 
Kathleen Hartnett White (Photograph by Sam Hodgson for the New York Times) 
Copyright New York Times Company Feb 5, 2018 
Subject 	Nominations; Science; Bills; Climate change; Environmental quality 
Location  Texas; New York; Maryland; Rhode Island; Delaware  
People  Trump, Donald J; Whitehouse, Sheldon  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  New York Times Co 511110, 511120, 515112, 515120;  
Name: NAICS:  Twitter Inc 519130;  
Name: NAICS:  Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 924110;  
Name: NAICS:  League of Conservation Voters 813940;  
Name: NAICS:  Senate 921120;  
Name: NAICS:  Council on Environmental Quality 926130;  
Name: NAICS:  Texas Public Policy Foundation 813211  
Title  Trump Drops His Nominee To Be Adviser On Climate: [National Desk]  
Author  Friedman, Lisa  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.13  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Feb 5, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1993909241  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1993909241?accountid=14902  

Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Feb 5, 2018  
Last updated  2018-02-05  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 168 of 236 


Mr. Trump's Deceptive Energy Policy: [Editorial] 
New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]05 Feb 2018: A.18. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Mr.+Trump%27s+Deceptive+Energy+Policy%3A+%5BEditorial%5D&title=New 02-05&volume=&issue=&spage=A.18&au=&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
"We have ended the war on American energy," President Trump boasted in his State of the Union address, "and we have ended the war on beautiful, clean coal. We are now, very proudly, an exporter of energy to the world." 
Those two sentences were about all Mr. Trump devoted to his energy policy in his message. Brief as they were, they encapsulated nearly everything that is shallow, dishonest and just plain wrong with that policy, as well as his approach to environmental issues generally. 
Here's what's deceptive: There has been no war on energy. American oil, gas and renewables like wind and solar flourished under President Obama. Coal was the exception, but Mr. Obama was not its enemy; the market was. "Beautiful, clean coal," meanwhile, remains a mirage, at least for now; the affordable technology isn't there. And the United States has always exported energy. In recent years -- the Obama years -- the amount of energy the country has sent abroad has begun to catch up with the energy it brings in. 
Mr. Trump's false narrative on coal is particularly cruel, since it offers empty promises to Appalachian coal miners who are suffering grievous job losses and myriad health and economic ills. It's true that the last two Democratic presidents -- Bill Clinton and Mr. Obama -- cracked down on power plant emissions like soot and mercury with rules that imposed real costs on producers; and Mr. Obama's Clean Power Plan, aimed at cutting the carbon emissions that fuel global warming, would have pressured the industry more. 
But these regulations did not kill coal-fired plants, and rolling them back, as Mr. Trump is doing, will not stop the unforgiving forces of the market, chiefly the switch to cheaper natural gas, and renewables' increasing competitiveness. These are the forces that have been largely responsible for the decline in mining jobs and the closing, or conversion to natural gas, of hundreds of coal-fired plants. 
What miners need are real programs to help transition them to new jobs, not promises of "beautiful, clean coal." That, incidentally, is not a new promise. Clean coal technology involves turning coal into a gas, then stripping out the carbon dioxide and burying it so it cannot pollute the atmosphere. Many environmental groups (and this board) hoped it would work. It hasn't. In 2015, the Obama administration finally pulled the plug on a clean coal experiment called FutureGen; then the Southern Company gave up on a clean coal venture in Mississippi after spending billions of dollars. 
America's leverage in world markets has indeed improved, due largely to a spectacular surge in domestic oil and gas production from big shale deposits in Texas and North Dakota. Domestic production recently hit 10 million barrels of crude oil a day, a figure not seen since 1970. Oil imports have steadily dropped. This has helped change the old dynamic in which the United States was forced to rely too heavily on unstable parts of the world for its oil supply. 
All this production, however, has a dark side, rarely mentioned in the huzzahs about the 10-million-barrel milestone: the continued carbon-loading of the atmosphere as global temperatures rise, as one extreme weather event follows another, as almost all mainstream scientists say that to avoid a climate catastrophe, the world must leave a big chunk of its fossil fuels in the ground and spend heavily on more benign forms of energy. That is one reason Mr. Obama and his secretary of state, John Kerry, did not approve the Keystone XL pipeline from Canada's oil sands. 
Such concerns are nowhere to be found in the playbook of a man who says that climate change is a hoax. Hence, full speed ahead, at the Environmental Protection Agency and the Interior Department, with Mr. Trump's "energy dominance" agenda, and with the overturning of rules that seek to balance conservation and commercial exploitation, and the opening up of nearly all of America's offshore waters to drilling -- whatever the risk, and however small the need. 
Credit: THE EDITORIAL BOARD 
Copyright New York Times Company Feb 5, 2018 
Subject 	Carbon; 
Coal-fired power plants; 
Energy policy; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Climate change; 
Natural gas; 
Editorials; 

Environmental impact; 
State of the Union Address; 

Presidents 


Location  United States--US  
People  Trump, Donald J  
Company / organization  Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS: 924110;  
Name: Southern Co  
NAICS: 221112, 221122  
Title  Mr. Trump's Deceptive Energy Policy: [Editorial]  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.18  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Feb 5, 2018  
column  Editorial  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  1993908763  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1993908763?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Feb 5, 2018  
Last updated  2018-02-05  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 169 of 236 


Exxon Studies Global Climate Rules and Sees 'Little Risk' to Bottom Line: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Plumer, Brad; Tabuchi, Hiroko.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]03 Feb 2018: B.3. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Exxon+Studies+Global+Climate+Rules+and+Sees+%27Little+Risk%27+to+Bot 02-03&volume=&issue=&spage=B.3&au=Plumer%2C+Brad%3BTabuchi%2C+Hiroko&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Want the latest climate news in your inbox? You can sign up here to receive Climate Fwd:, our new email newsletter. 
WASHINGTON -- In one sign of the pressures that companies face to understand the business risks of stricter climate-change policies, one of the world's biggest energy companies on Friday offered its thoughts on how it would fare in a low-carbon world. 
Exxon Mobil's shareholders -- concerned that the company's main businesses, oil and natural gas, may be imperiled -- had demanded last year that the company give a more detailed accounting of the consequences of global policies aimed at curbing emissions of earth-warming gases. Those policies include the goal of the Paris climate agreement to prevent global temperatures from rising more than 2 degrees Celsius above preindustrial levels. 
Exxon's conclusion: Even aggressive climate policies pose "little risk" to its investments. It stressed that it expected healthy demand for its products for decades to come, regardless of how strongly countries move to cut emissions. 
Exxon also played down the impact of electric vehicles on its business prospects. 
But even as those words sought to reassure shareholders, the report underscored how the company is grappling with the transition to stricter policies to curb greenhouse gas emissions, a shift various analysts and climate advocates say will pose a mortal threat to the fossil fuels industry. A paper published in Nature in 2015 estimated that, for the world to have a 50-50 shot at staying below 2 degrees Celsius of warming, the world would have to avoid burning most of the coal reserves currently beneath the ground, half the natural gas, and about one-third of the oil. 
Exxon laid out a more optimistic view. Oil and natural gas, the company's mainstays, will "continue to play a critical role in meeting the world's energy demand," the company said in its report. 
Exxon's vast fossil fuel reserves "face little risk" of being left in the ground, the company said. While some of its undeveloped oil resources "may not be attractive investments" in a 2-degree policy scenario, those represent less than 5 percent of the company's property by value. Under that scenario, Exxon sees the world's oil consumption dropping only slowly in the next two decades or so, and sees demand for natural gas rising slightly. 
In examining whether the rise of electric vehicles could threaten demand for future oil, Exxon said it expected there to be 160 million electric cars on the road worldwide by 2040, up from just a few million today. However, other analysts have suggested that electric cars could catch on more quickly as battery prices drop and as countries like China -- one of the world's biggest emerging markets for cars -- push more aggressively for adoption of electric vehicles. 
Also on Friday, Exxon reported lackluster quarterly earnings as disappointing refinery and chemical results weighed on its bottom line. Its stock fell 5 percent on Friday amid a broader sell-off in the market. 
Some climate campaigners were unimpressed with Exxon's climate analysis. "The range of risks that Exxon faces if climate action is taken is far deeper than what's being presented here," said Adam Scott, a senior adviser at Oil Change International, an energy research and advocacy group. 
He and others pointed out that Exxon, for instance, has assumed the development of technologies such as carbon capture that would allow the use of fossil fuels to continue with lower emissions. Also, Exxon didn't address what might happen if countries agreed to make considerably more aggressive cuts designed to hold global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius above preindustrial levels, as urged by the Paris agreement. 
Nor did the company detail the risks from the growing number of lawsuits being filed against fossil fuel companies in various states around the United States. In January, New York City sued Exxon, BP, Shell, and other oil companies, demanding billions of dollars in damages to help the city cope with the effects of global warming. 
"ExxonMobil's own analysis assumes the world will continue to burn through oil and gas to drive its profits, keeping us on a path toward global temperatures rising well above the 2 degree Celsius threshold," said Kathy Mulvey, climate accountability manager at the Union of Concerned Scientists. 
Follow @NYTClimate on Twitter 
Credit: BRAD PLUMER and HIROKO TABUCHI; Brad Plumer reported from Washington and Hiroko Tabuchi from New York. John Schwartz contributed from New York and Clifford Krauss from Houston. 
Copyright New York Times Company Feb 3, 2018 
Subject  Fossil fuels;  
Emissions;  
Electric vehicles;  
Natural gas  
Location  China; New York; United States--US  
People  Scott, Adam  
Company / organization  Name: Oil Change International  
NAICS: 813312;  
Name: Union of Concerned Scientists  
NAICS: 813920;  
Name: Exxon Mobil Corp  
NAICS: 211111, 447110;  
Name: Twitter Inc  
NAICS: 519130  
Title  Exxon Studies Global Climate Rules and Sees 'Little Risk' to Bottom Line: [Business/Financial  
Desk]  
Author  Plumer, Brad; Tabuchi, Hiroko  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.3  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Feb 3, 2018  
Section  B  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1993534816  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1993534816?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Feb 3, 2018  
Last updated  2018-02-07  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 170 of 236 


New Jersey Rejoins Regional Emissions Program It Quit Under Christie: [Metropolitan Desk] 
Plumer, Brad.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]31 Jan 2018: A.21. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=New+Jersey+Rejoins+Regional+Emissions+Program+It+Quit+Under+Christie%3 01-31&volume=&issue=&spage=A.21&au=Plumer%2C+Brad&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- Even as the Trump administration dismantles climate policies at the federal level, a growing number of Democratic state governors are considering taxing or pricing carbon dioxide emissions within their own borders to tackle global warming. 
New Jersey took a major step in that direction Monday when newly elected Gov. Philip D. Murphy, a Democrat, ordered his state to rejoin a regional carbon-trading program that his Republican predecessor, Chris Christie, had pulled out of in 2012. 
The program, known as the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, requires power plants in participating states to buy permits for the carbon dioxide they emit. State officials often use revenue from these permit auctions for energy efficiency programs. 
In a so-called cap-and-trade program like this, power plants can trade the carbon permits among themselves, but the overall number of permits dwindles steadily over time. That effectively raises the cost of emitting carbon dioxide, prodding utilities to seek out cleaner sources of electricity. 
"Pulling out of R.G.G.I. slowed down progress on lowering emissions and has cost New Jerseyans millions of dollars that could have been used to increase energy efficiency and improve air quality in our communities," Mr. Murphy said. He estimated that New Jersey had foregone $279 million in permit auction revenue because of Mr. Christie's withdrawal. 
"Five years ago, New Jersey faced Superstorm Sandy," he added. "That storm and the devastation it brought to our state was an all-too-real look at our new normal if we do not take climate change seriously." 
Nine other states have already imposed a price on carbon dioxide emissions from power plants through R.G.G.I.: Connecticut, Delaware, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New York, Rhode Island and Vermont. Separately, California has its own cap-and-trade program that covers not just power plants, but factories, oil refineries and more. 
More states could soon join the carbon pricing bandwagon, a trend that many observers see as partly a reaction to the Trump administration's unwillingness to act on global warming. Last year, in Virginia, former Gov. Terry McAuliffe ordered regulators to explore a cap-and-trade program for the state's power plants. His successor, Gov. Ralph Northam, has vowed to continue the process, although a separate proposal to link Virginia's program with R.G.G.I. would likely need to go through the legislature. 
In Oregon, state legislators have introduced a bill to create their own statewide cap-and-trade program that might eventually be linked up with those in California, Ontario and Quebec. 
And in Washington State, Gov. Jay Inslee, a Democrat, has proposed a direct tax on carbon dioxide emissions from all sources in the state, with the price starting at $20 per ton of carbon dioxide and rising over time. While some of the revenue from the tax would help offset the state's budget deficit, much of it would be earmarked for clean-energy investments, projects to help the state adapt to floods and wildfires, and programs to cushion low-income residents from increases in energy prices. 
Economists have long argued that carbon pricing, either through a direct tax or cap-and-trade, can be an effective tool for reducing the greenhouse gas emissions warming the planet. As fossil fuels become more expensive, the theory goes, businesses and individuals will find creative ways to use less of them. 
Yet in the past, politicians have sometimes shied away from carbon pricing for fear that it would raise electricity or gasoline prices for voters who rely heavily on fossil fuels and have few alternatives. When Mr. Christie withdrew New Jersey from R.G.G.I. in 2012, he said the program "does nothing more than tax electricity, tax our citizens, tax our businesses, with no discernible or measurable impact upon our environment." 
In the Northeast, at least, those fears have not been borne out so far. In part because of a glut of cheap natural gas from fracking, as well as the recent boom in wind and solar power, utilities in the R.G.G.I. program have found it relatively easy to retire their dirtiest coal plants and cut pollution at minimal cost. Emissions from electricity in R.G.G.I. states have fallen 40 percent since 2009 -- faster than in the rest of the country -- while electricity prices have declined 3.9 percent. (Regulators recently tightened the program's cap to aim for an additional 30 percent cut in power-plant emissions by 2030.) 
Some policymakers are also seeking to minimize any backlash from carbon pricing by taking the revenue raised and investing it directly into efficiency measures that can lower household electricity bills or fossil-fuel alternatives, like electric vehicles. Jesse Jenkins, an energy researcher at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, notes that these investments may end up having a greater impact than the carbon prices themselves, since "real-world carbon prices routinely fall well below what economists typically have in mind." 
Mr. Inslee has opted for that strategy in pushing a carbon tax in Washington after a similar proposal failed at the ballot in 2016. The tax, he said in his State of the State speech, "will allow us to reinvest in all the things that drive down emissions. We can build more solar panels. We can put more electric cars on the road. We can help more Washingtonians purchase energy-saving insulation for their homes and businesses." 
As long as interest in carbon pricing remains confined to a handful of Democratic-led states, it will have only a partial effect on overall emissions in the United States. Taken together, the states that either have or are considering carbon pricing accounted for roughly 21 percent of America's carbon dioxide emissions in 2015. 
Still, Robert Stavins, an energy economist at Harvard University, notes that state-level momentum on carbon pricing could send a message that the United States has not abandoned efforts to address global warming, even as the Trump administration disavows the Paris climate agreement. 
Follow @NYTClimate on Twitter 

Photograph 
Lowering Carbon Dioxide Emissions From Power Plants Like the Oyster Creek Generating Station in Forked River, N.J., Is the Goal. (Photograph by Stan Honda/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 
Copyright New York Times Company Jan 31, 2018 
Subject 	Electric vehicles; 
Environmental policy; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Climate change; 
Natural gas; 
Emissions trading; 

Electricity; 
Greenhouse gases; 
Fossil fuels; 
Carbon dioxide; 
Global warming; 
Energy efficiency; 
Coal-fired power plants 


Location 	New Jersey 
People 	Christie, Christopher J; Murphy, Philip 
Title 	New Jersey Rejoins Regional Emissions Program It Quit Under Christie: [Metropolitan Desk] 
Author 	Plumer, Brad 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.21 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Jan 31, 2018 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	General Interest Periodicals--United States 
ISSN 	03624331 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	News 
ProQuest document ID 	1992516064 
Document URL 	https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1992516064?accountid=14902 
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Jan 31, 2018  
Last updated  2018-01-31  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 171 of 236 


On Climate, a New Voice in Trenton: [Editorial] 
New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]30 Jan 2018: A.22. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=On+Climate%2C+a+New+Voice+in+Trenton%3A+%5BEditorial%5D&title=Ne 01-30&volume=&issue=&spage=A.22&au=&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Given the Trump administration's indifference to climate change, the task of reducing emissions of carbon dioxide, the main global warming gas, has fallen largely to city and state governments. It is thus greatly encouraging that New Jersey, under its new governor, Phil Murphy, a Democrat, will join -- more precisely, rejoin -- the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, a consortium of nine Eastern and New England states that has achieved substantial emissions reductions from large power plants since its start in 2009. 
Mr. Murphy chose Highlands, a borough on the Atlantic shore hit hard by Hurricane Sandy in 2012, to announce that he would sign an executive order renewing New Jersey's participation in the consortium. His predecessor, Chris Christie, a Republican, pulled the state out of the agreement in 2011, claiming he was trying to protect New Jersey ratepayers. A more plausible explanation lay in his nascent presidential aspirations. Climate change had become an unpopular subject among Republicans, and big donors like the Koch brothers were threatening to pull the plug on any candidate who favored regulation of greenhouse gases. 
RGGI (pronounced "Reggie") has, in fact, a Republican pedigree, dating back to 2003, when Gov. George Pataki of New York invited other Northeast governors to join a regional effort to reduce carbon emissions. What followed was a regionwide system that sets a declining cap on emissions from large power plants -- about 170 in total -- and requires individual power producers to buy permits from state governments to pollute. As the cap declines, the price of the permits rises, giving utilities an incentive to find cheaper ways to reduce emissions. 
According to various studies, power plant emissions have declined 40 percent since 2009, while the sale of the permits has raised $2.7 billion that's been invested in efficiency measures and renewable energy. Some of these reductions would have occurred anyway as plants shifted from coal to cheaper, cleaner-burning natural gas, and the reductions are a small fraction of the total greenhouse gases generated in the nine-state region. Even so, it's a well-designed program that will only get stronger; last August, the nine states agreed to reduce emissions a further 30 percent by 2030. A national program along similar lines passed the House in 2009 but never came to a vote in the Senate. 
There is one more thing Mr. Murphy can do to show that he's bringing a new sensibility on energy and environmental matters to Trenton. That is to chart a sensible way forward for two New Jersey nuclear plants that keeps them alive for now but provides for the day when they become too old or costly. At issue are the Salem and Hope Creek generating stations. Their owner, Public Service Electric and Gas, is threatening to close them unless the Legislature provides a subsidy of $300 million a year. A bill to do exactly that came close to approval in the waning days of the Christie administration and is now in negotiations between the new governor and the State Senate. 
Nobody doubts the value of the two plants. Nuclear power is carbon-free, and thus vital to the fight against climate change. But simply throwing money at them is shortsighted. California, Illinois and New York have all faced the issue of aging, uneconomical nuclear plants and have devised creative solutions that would significantly ramp up investment in renewables like wind and solar so that when the plants do close, there are carbon-free sources to take their place -- not to mention new jobs for the displaced workers. Mr. Murphy should insist on a similarly creative and comprehensive plan. 
Credit: THE EDITORIAL BOARD 

Illustration 
Drawing (Drawing by Luba Lukova) 
Copyright New York Times Company Jan 30, 2018 
Subject 	State government; 
Greenhouse gases; 
Emissions; 

Carbon; 
Consortia; 
Governors; 
Greenhouse effect; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Climate change; 
Nuclear power plants; 

Natural gas; 
Editorials; 

Pollution control; 
Environmental policy 


Location  New Jersey  
People  Murphy, Philip  
Company / organization  Name:  Senate  
NAICS:  921120  

Title  On Climate, a New Voice in Trenton: [Editorial]  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.22  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Jan 30, 2018  
column  Editorial  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  1992199052  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1992199052?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Jan 30, 2018  
Last updated  2018-01-30  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 172 of 236 


U.S. Coal Prospect, Not in U.S.: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Ives, Mike.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]27 Jan 2018: B.1. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=U.S.+Coal+Prospect%2C+Not+in+U.S.%3A+%5BBusiness%2FFinancial+Desk% 01-27&volume=&issue=&spage=B.1&au=Ives%2C+Mike&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
LONG PHU, Vietnam -- The towering lattice of blue steel girders rising above banana and lemongrass crops near Vietnam's southern coast stands as public testament to the country's drive to burn coal. 
With help from a Kremlin-connected Russian bank, Vietnam is building a coal-fired power plant called Long Phu 1 that will produce an estimated 5.4 million tons of carbon dioxide a year, generating enough electricity to power millions of homes. 
But the project needs something else first: help from the United States government. 
The plant's state-controlled owner has applied for assistance with the project from the Export-Import Bank of the United States. If the bank agrees, American taxpayers will shoulder the financial risk behind Vietnam's purchase of millions of dollars' worth of turbines and other equipment from General Electric. 
The bank has not yet decided whether it will back the project. If it did, it would show that the Trump administration's commitment to using more coal at home also extended overseas. Critics say it would also challenge a growing global consensus that developed nations and groups like the World Bank should stop funding high-polluting energy projects in developing countries. Britain's equivalent of the Export-Import Bank has already declined to participate in the project. 
In addition, it would provide American backing for a project partly funded by a Russian bank that has endured sanctions by the United States government since 2014 because of Moscow's military intervention in Ukraine. 
Support within the Ex-Im Bank is not clear. In a statement, the bank said it was reviewing the application to determine whether it complied with international rules and the bank's environmental policy. 
Analysts say the deal would almost certainly be structured so that neither Ex-Im Bank nor any American companies were in direct contact with the Russian bank, Vnesheconombank, or VEB. The project's backers in the United States and Vietnam say it would generate employment in both places. 
"Our work on the Long Phu project supports the Vietnamese government's goal of bringing power to approximately four million Vietnamese people, while also supporting hundreds of U.S. jobs," said Una Pulizzi, a General Electric spokeswoman. 
In Vietnam, the project is part of a burst of spending to meet rising electricity needs and support a fast-growing economy. 
Thai Thuy Hang, for example, opened a restaurant near the construction site several months ago. Now she serves humble fare like rice and chicken feet to hungry construction workers. She said that she planned to recoup her $9,000 investment within a year -- even if the project ran into problems. 
"No one likes risk like me," she said. 
Developing countries building fossil-fuel projects have found that the number of places they can turn to for help has dwindled. 
The World Bank, which earlier restricted funding for coal projects, said last month that it would mostly stop funding oil and gas projects after 2019. Criticized by environmentalists after approving tens of billions of dollars in financing related to fossil fuels, the Obama administration said in 2013 that it would restrict support for overseas coal projects. UK Export Finance, Britain's export credit agency, has already rejected financing for Long Phu 1 because of the government's climate change priorities, a spokeswoman said. 
The timing of a decision on the Vietnam project is unclear. Last month a Senate panel rejected Scott Garrett, a critic of the Ex-Im Bank, as President Trump's nominee to lead it. But four other nominees to fill out its board are expected to go to the full Senate for confirmation, potentially enabling the board to begin making new financing deals more than two years after political fighting over the agency left its work at a standstill. 
Vietnam sees coal as central to its energy needs. Long Phu 1, which is being built by PetroVietnam, a state energy company, would be the first element of a three-plant complex and burn coal from Australia or Indonesia. 
Several advocacy groups say that PetroVietnam's environmental due diligence underestimated the project's likely carbon footprint. They also say the project is not clean enough to meet new guidelines from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, a group of developed nations that includes the United States and that has tried to curb lending by government-owned export credit agencies to certain types of coal projects. 
By approving the project, the United States would be "thumbing our nose to all the other countries that have striven so hard to reach this agreement," said Doug Norlen, the director of economic policy at Friends of the Earth, a nonprofit group that opposes Long Phu 1. 
The final impact assessment for the project was submitted to the Ex-Im Bank in December 2016, days before the O.E.C.D. guidelines took effect. The company's supporters say the timing exempts the project from the guidelines. 
The project's Russian backer, VEB, has also come under criticism. The bank is under sanctions that effectively prevent it from taking on new business in the United States. It is also part of a federal investigation into possible collusion between the Trump campaign and the Russian government. While there is no suggestion that the Vietnamese coal plant is linked to that investigation, critics say Washington would be sending mixed messages if the Ex-Im Bank approved a project backed by the Russian bank. 
"It's striking in some ways to me that this is a project the Trump administration might pursue," said Brian O'Toole, a former Treasury official who helped design American sanctions on Russia. 
"If you hold Russia accountable, you don't do stuff like this with them," he added. 
VEB did not respond to an emailed list of questions. 
Activists who oppose the project also say that by approving it the Ex-Im Bank would risk violating an O.E.C.D. convention designed to prevent export credit agencies from forming a partnership with corrupt foreign officials. On Monday, Dinh La Thang, PetroVietnam's former chairman, was sentenced to 13 years in prison for economic mismanagement, in an anticorruption push that experts widely regard as more a reflection of political infighting than a desire to eliminate graft in Vietnam, a one-party state. 
Mat Tromme, a senior research fellow at the Bingham Center for the Rule of Law in London who previously worked on anticorruption projects in Vietnam, said that proving a violation of the O.E.C.D. convention could be difficult because its definition of corruption can be vague. 
But he said that it was "relatively easy" to see how the case could fall within the convention's provisions, and that the Ex-Im Bank might feel pressure from export credit agencies in countries like Britain, Canada and Germany that have what he called "tough" positions against bribery and corruption. 
PetroVietnam officials did not respond to multiple requests for comment. The Ex-Im Bank said it would consider any evidence of mismanagement. 
Work on the project is already underway. On a recent weekday, welding sparks could be seen inside the skeleton of the plant, which is about the size of an office building. 
Le Thi Tam, who lives nearby, said that officials had paid her about $2,400 to relinquish her farmland on what is now the project site. Pollution from the plant is a concern, Ms. Tam said, but that is hardly worth complaining about. 
"It's government policy," she said. "Who can argue with that?" 

Photograph 
A Farmer Tending a Rice Field Next to the Site of the Long Phu 1 Coal-Fired Power Plant in Vietnam. The Export-Import Bank of the United States Is Considering a Request to Assist the Project. (B1); a Woman Selling Corn Near the Site of the Long Phu 1 Plant. The Project Is Part of a Burst of Spending to Meet Vietnam's Power Needs, but Environmentalists Are Wary.; Thai Thuy Hang, Who Opened a Restaurant Near the Construction Site Several Months Ago, Said She Planned to Recoup Her $9,000 Investment Within a Year. "No One Likes Risk Like Me," She Said. (Photographs by Quinn Ryan Mattingly for the New York Times) (B4) 
Copyright New York Times Company Jan 27, 2018 
Subject 	Funding; 
Corruption; 
Environmentalists; 
Sanctions; 

Critics; 

Conventions; 
Project finance; 

Industrialized nations; 
Developing countries--LDCs; 
Trade finance; 

Coal-fired power plants 


Location 	Russia; Canada; United Kingdom--UK; Australia; Ukraine; Indonesia; United States--US; 

New York; Vietnam; Germany 


People 	Trump, Donald J; Garrett, Scott 
Company / organization 	Name: Export-Import Bank of the United States 

NAICS: 522298; 

Name: International Bank for Reconstruction & Development--World Bank 

NAICS: 928120; 

Name: Vietnam Oil & Gas Group 

NAICS: 211111; 

Name: Friends of the Earth 

NAICS: 813312; 

Name: New York Times Co 

NAICS: 511110, 511120, 515112, 515120; 


Name:  Senate  
NAICS:  921120;  
Name:  Vnesheconombank  
NAICS:  522110;  
Name:  General Electric Co  
NAICS:  332510, 334290, 334512, 334519  

Title  U.S. Coal Prospect, Not in U.S.: [Business/Financial Desk]  
Author  Ives, Mike  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.1  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Jan 27, 2018  
Section  B  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1991563685  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1991563685?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Jan 27, 2018  
Last updated  2018-01-27  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 173 of 236 


Forum Lauds Climate Efforts by China Even as Its Emissions Climb: [Foreign Desk] 
Bradsher, Keith; Friedman, Lisa.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]26 Jan 2018: A.11. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Forum+Lauds+Climate+Efforts+by+China+Even+as+Its+Emissions+Climb%3A+ 01-26&volume=&issue=&spage=A.11&au=Bradsher%2C+Keith%3BFriedman%2C+Lisa&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
DAVOS, Switzerland -- Xi Jinping, China's president, galvanized supporters of the climate-change fight last year when he told an audience at the World Economic Forum that the 
effort "is a responsibility we must assume for future generations." 
This week, as they gather again in Davos for the annual global gabfest, world leaders continue to see China as a major force in that fight. Yet new figures show a complicating 
development: China's emissions of climate-changing greenhouse gases may be rising again. 

China -- which already emits more carbon from burning fossil fuels than the United States and Europe combined -- saw electricity use jump last year as its economy accelerated. Much of the extra demand was met by burning more coal, a particularly dirty fuel. Oil use has also risen as China has become the world's largest car market, and so has natural gas consumption. 
Experts say one annual increase doesn't indicate China is returning to an era when its emissions grew by leaps and bounds. But the increase illustrates the challenges and 
compromises Beijing must juggle if it wants to stoke its economy and at the same time keep its environmental promises. 
China has pressed ahead with longer-term efforts to get its economy to burn more cleanly. Last month it announced plans to set up a national carbon trading market. It has also 
begun a long and sometimes painful process to encourage use of natural gas. 

Those efforts won praise on Wednesday from Prime Minister Erna Solberg of Norway, who said in an interview that China's plans for a carbon market would help its economy 
grow and protect people's livelihoods at the same time. "We have to decouple energy use and CO2 emissions from economic growth," she said. 
What happens in China has a crucial effect on global emissions. China produces more than a quarter of humanity's emissions of global warming gases. 

Officials in Davos said they saw little indication that China's influence in the climate change effort was ebbing. 
India, for example, is considering whether to follow the United States in putting tariffs on solar panel imports to help its own industry, or whether to bow to the dominance of 
China, by far the largest maker and buyer of solar panels. China also dominates the business of making wind turbines and is focused on becoming a force in electric cars. 

"We are trying to promote our manufacturers, but they also have to compete with international manufacturers," said Ramesh Abhishek, India's secretary of industrial policy and 

promotion. 
The stakes are high. Peter O'Neill, the prime minister of Papua New Guinea, contended at the conference that a severe drought in his country could be attributed in part to 
climate change. "The world seems to think they have time, but there are real communities already suffering," he said. 

Falling Chinese emissions in 2015 and again in 2016 caused the entire world's energy-related emissions to level off in those years. That gave some hope to climate scientists of 

progress in stabilizing humanity's release of climate-changing gases into the atmosphere. 
But China's National Development and Reform Commission released detailed data this week showing that the country's electricity consumption jumped 6.6 percent last year. 
Wind and solar energy grew quickly, but not nearly enough to meet the extra demand. Electricity generation from the burning of fossil fuels, almost entirely coal, rose 5.2 
percent in China last year. 

Yan Pengcheng, a spokesman for the agency, emphasized Monday at a news briefing in Beijing that China had expanded its use of clean energy. China's generation of electricity 
by wind power climbed by about one-quarter last year, while solar power jumped by three-quarters, Mr. Yan said. 
But the increases in wind and solar power both came from low bases. 

Some scientists have been warning since autumn that China's drop in carbon emissions in 2015 and 2016 might be reversed, and Monday's data confirmed this. 
"The increase last year is a one-off -- it's not likely to be sustained -- but Chinese emissions are not likely to go down, either," said Trevor Houser, a partner at the Rhodium 
Group, a New York consulting group specializing in China. Rhodium estimates that China's energy-related carbon emissions climbed last year 2.2 percent to 4.1 percent. 

By contrast, China had somewhat weak industrial production in the second half of 2015 and the first half of 2016 because of a financial crisis. That hurt the Chinese economy and fossil fuel consumption in both years. China still burns coal to generate three-quarters of its electricity. 
While China's official figures for economic output show that growth did not falter in 2015 and 2016, and that there was a slight uptick last year, Western economists are skeptical of Chinese economic statistics. They say China's government statisticians appear to have understated the extent of the earlier slowdown. 
Premier Li Keqiang himself has said before that electricity consumption statistics are more reliable in China, and something he watches more, than overall economic growth statistics. 
"So the widely reported flattening of China's emissions while economic growth continued apace was misleading," said Robert Stavins, an energy economist at Harvard University. "Emissions had flattened because of the slowed economy." 
Mr. Stavins said that despite the uptick he remained optimistic about China's ability to downshift its emissions trajectory permanently. 
As part of the Paris agreement on climate change, China pledged that its emissions would peak no later than 2030, and Mr. Stavins said that target "remains very much within reach." 
China has also said it will make its economy much more efficient than it was in 2005 in terms of how much carbon it emits per unit of growth. Also by the 2030 target date, it plans to increase the share of non-fossil fuels as part of its primary energy consumption to about 20 percent. 
It is too soon for experts to declare definitively that all human-caused emissions of global warming gases increased last year, as most countries have not yet released enough data. 
Chinese officials have long pointed out that while their country's emissions may be high, that is mainly because China has a lot of people. Emissions per person were only slightly higher in China in 2016 than in the European Union, and were lower than in the United States. 
Data from sources of human-caused greenhouse gases in China other than fossil fuels, such as from agriculture, won't be available for several months, but those emissions are smaller. 
The backdrop for climate change worries here came in the form of snow drifts left by a blizzard that dumped more than six feet of snow in a week. 
Klaus Schwab, the executive chairman of the World Economic Forum, joked with Liu He, a Politburo member from China, which is hosting the 2022 Winter Olympics. "When you have the Olympic Games," Mr. Schwab said, "maybe we can export some of the snow to your country." 
AuthorAffiliation 
KEITH BRADSHER and LISA FRIEDMAN Follow Keith Bradsher and Lisa Friedman on Twitter: @KeithBradsher and @LFFriedman. 
Credit: KEITH BRADSHER and LISA FRIEDMAN; Keith Bradsher reported from Davos, and Lisa Friedman from Washington. Ailin Tang contributed research. 

Photograph 
The Wujing Coal-Electricity Power Station in Shanghai in 2017. China's Electricity Consumption Jumped 6.6 Percent Last Year. (Photograph by Johannes Eisele/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 
Copyright New York Times Company Jan 26, 2018 
Subject 	Consumption; 
Emissions; 

Climate change; 
Prime ministers; 
Economic statistics; 

Solar energy; 
Greenhouse gases; 
Fossil fuels; 
Carbon; 
Economic growth; 

Alternative energy sources; 

Coal; 
Economic summit conferences; 
Global warming 


Location 	Switzerland; China; Davos Switzerland 
People 	Xi Jinping; Liu He; Li Keqiang; Solberg, Erna 
Company / organization 	Name: World Economic Forum 

NAICS: 926110; 

Name: European Union NAICS: 926110, 928120 
Title  Forum Lauds Climate Efforts by China Even as Its Emissions Climb: [Foreign Desk]  
Author  Bradsher, Keith; Friedman, Lisa  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  

Pages  A.11  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Jan 26, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1991055298  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1991055298?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Jan 26, 2018  
Last updated  2018-01-26  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 174 of 236 



Trump Campaign Cash, Steered to His Friends: [National Desk] 
Vogel, Kenneth P; Shorey, Rachel.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]25 Jan 2018: A.17. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Trump+Campaign+Cash%2C+Steered+to+His+Friends%3A+%5BNational+Desk 01-25&volume=&issue=&spage=A.17&au=Vogel%2C+Kenneth+P%3BShorey%2C+Rachel&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- A pair of groups supporting President Trump say they raised $30 million last year, then spent tens of thousands of those dollars at the Trump International Hotel here and on payments to a few Trump loyalists like the former campaign manager Corey Lewandowski and the former Milwaukee County sheriff David A. Clarke Jr., according to new campaign finance reports and news reports. 
Of the millions raised, at least $1 million came from a coal company that has gained extraordinary access to the Trump administration to push for pro-coal policy changes. 
The campaign finance reports shed light on a network of groups that were formed to support Mr. Trump, but have spent less than other groups bolstering his agenda, while steering money to the president's businesses and his most ardent surrogates. 
One of the groups -- a "super PAC" called America First Action -- spent nearly $33,000 at the Trump International Hotel, primarily on events for donors, and paid tens of thousands of dollars each to Mr. Lewandowski; Brad Parscale, a digital strategist for Mr. Trump's campaign; and Katrina Pierson, a campaign spokeswoman. Those figures were revealed in a report filed on Wednesday with the Federal Election Commission, which shows that the group raised $4 million last year. 
An affiliated nonprofit group, America First Policies, raised $26 million last year, according to a report by Axios. That group is registered under a section of the tax code -- 501(c) 
(4) -- that allows it to shield most information about its finances, including the identity of its donors. 
The America First groups have been viewed as something of an enigma in campaign finance circles. While many of the Republican Party's traditional elite donors have publicly kept their distance from the groups, the organizations have the blessing of the administration and have projected confidence in their fund-raising. 
But Republican operatives have grumbled that the amount the groups say they have raised have dwarfed the amount they have spent to support Mr. Trump's political and policy goals during his first year in office. 
Reports filed with the election commission show that the groups combined to spend about $3.2 million -- just over 10 percent of what they raised -- supporting Republican candidates in special elections, including former Senator Luther Strange and Roy S. Moore, who lost their bids for an Alabama Senate seat, and Karen Handel, who won her House campaign in Georgia. 
Figures provided by a Republican ad buyer indicate that the groups spent an additional $2.8 million on television ads promoting efforts championed by Mr. Trump to overhaul the tax code and repeal the Affordable Care Act, though there were no records of television ad spending by the groups since the passage last month of the tax overhaul. Other Republican groups have been advertising heavily this year to bolster public approval of the tax overhaul, which is considered critical to the party's midterm election prospects this year. 
Brian O. Walsh, the president of America First Policies, said the group had paid for online ads "highlighting President Trump's leadership on key issues." Those ads can be harder to track, and Mr. Walsh declined to provide an "item-by-item breakdown at this time." 
A person close to the groups told Axios that they had $14 million in the bank headed into this year, which could provide the basis for a major midterm election campaign. 
But very few of the party's elite donors were listed among the contributors to America First Action in the report filed on Wednesday with the election commission. 
By far the biggest donor was the Los Angeles developer Geoffrey H. Palmer, who donated $2 million of the $3.7 million raised in the second half of the year by America First Action. Mr. Palmer donated generously in 2016, giving $3 million to a different super PAC that supported Mr. Trump, and an additional $310,000 to a committee associated with Mr. Trump's campaign. 
An additional $1 million came from Murray Energy, a coal company based in Ohio that has assiduously courted Mr. Trump as it pressed the new administration to repeal President Barack Obama's climate change policies intended to shut down old coal-burning power plants. The company had previously donated a combined $550,000 to help fund the Republican convention in Cleveland and Mr. Trump's inauguration. 
In the weeks after Mr. Trump's inauguration, Murray's chief executive officer, Robert E. Murray, wrote confidential memos to Vice President Mike Pence and the energy secretary, Rick Perry, laying out a wish list of environmental rollbacks, which he discussed in a meeting with Mr. Perry. The administration is on track to fulfill many of the items on Mr. Murray's list. 
Murray Energy's donation to America First Action came about five months after Mr. Murray's meeting with Mr. Perry. Asked whether there was any connection between the donation and the administration's receptiveness to Mr. Murray, Gary M. Broadbent, a spokesman for Murray Energy, said that "President Trump and his administration have always supported the United States coal industry." 
America First Action has spent heavily to try to court other major donors, as well, paying consultants with significant fund-raising experience, including Cara Mason, the former finance director of the Republican National Committee, and Marty Obst, a longtime aide and current policy adviser to Mr. Pence. Their respective firms were paid $60,000 each in the second half of last year by America First Action. 
The super PAC hosted a Christmas party for donors at the Trump International Hotel, which has emerged as a go-to destination for donors and others seeking to rub elbows with Trump family members and insiders. The party was attended by Mr. Pence, as well as Trump family members and several members of Congress. In addition, America First Action spent more than $57,000 on gifts for donors at upscale jewelry stores, the White House Historical Association and 800-CEO-READ, a company that sells bulk orders of books about business, including many of Mr. Trump's titles. 
The super PAC also paid $55,000 to a firm owned by Mr. Lewandowski, $40,000 to one owned by Ms. Pierson and $137,000 to one owned by Mr. Parscale. He is in charge of digital outreach for America First Action and Mr. Trump's campaign, and it is possible that his firm is using the money it received from the PAC to buy digital advertising. Mr. Clarke, who is a spokesman and senior adviser to America First, was paid $32,000 through his firm. 
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 
Photograph 
Trump International Hotel has Emerged As the Spot for Those Seeking to Rub Elbows with Those Closest to the President. (Photograph by Alex Wroblewski for the New York Times) 
Copyright New York Times Company Jan 25, 2018 
Subject 	Donations; 

Political finance; 
Campaign contributions; 
Political action committees--PAC; 
Influence; 
Political advertising 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Trump, Donald J; Lewandowski, Corey 
Company / organization 	Name: 800-CEO-READ 

NAICS: 451211; 

Name: Republican Party NAICS: 813940; 
Name: Republican National Committee NAICS: 813940; 
Name: White House Historical Association NAICS: 813910; 
Name: Trump International Hotel-Washington DC NAICS: 721110 
Title 	Trump Campaign Cash, Steered to His Friends: [National Desk] 
Author 	Vogel, Kenneth P; Shorey, Rachel 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.17 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Jan 25, 2018 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1990762965  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1990762965?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Jan 25, 2018  
Last updated  2018-01-25  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 175 of 236 



Coal Country at the Crossroads: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Krauss, Clifford.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]25 Jan 2018: B.1. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Coal+Country+at+the+Crossroads%3A+%5BBusiness%2FFinancial+Desk%5D& 01-25&volume=&issue=&spage=B.1&au=Krauss%2C+Clifford&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
BOBTOWN, Pa. -- When Nic Zmija applied for a job at the 4 West coal mine three years ago, he was tantalized by a fat raise and a secure future. Once hired, he was told that someday even his two young sons had jobs waiting for them. 
"It all sounded good," Mr. Zmija recalled with a tight smile while sitting at his kitchen table the other day. "They said my kids would be able to retire here." 
But right after New Year's, management announced that the mine would have to close, leaving 370 workers scrambling to find new jobs. The Zmija family must now prepare to move in search of the next coal job. 
The fateful turn of events in Appalachian mining towns like Bobtown, isolated between craggy bluffs and wooded hills 70 miles south of Pittsburgh, illustrate the seemingly relentless downturn of the coal industry. While President Trump has offered some regulatory relief to the industry, market forces still dictate a gloomy future -- one largely shaped by the glut of cheap natural gas yielded by the drilling boom in shale fields near here and across much of the nation. 
As aging coal-fired power plants are shut -- roughly 20 of 380 have closed or are in the process of shutting since Mr. Trump took office -- coal's share of the nation's power mix has plummeted from nearly half in 2008 to roughly a third today. 
Last year, coal consumption in the United States fell by 2.4 percent, falling to its lowest level in nearly four decades. In the early weeks of 2018, national coal production has continued to decline from a year ago despite the frigid winter. A weather-related increase in exports last year yielded a modest gain in jobs, but it is not considered sustainable. 
The decline in demand has forced a 38 percent drop in the nation's coal production in a little less than a decade. Now only the most efficient mines containing the highest-quality coal are able to survive. 
The 4 West mine, like many that produce coal for power utilities in Appalachia, is expensive to run. Its coal seam is thin and of lower quality than competing mines, and its traditional form of mining requires costly methods to stabilize roofs to protect against the kind of accidents that caused the deaths of two miners at 4 West over the last three years. Government fines and management turmoil also took their toll. 
The most successful mines these days, particularly here in Appalachia, produce metallurgical coal for steel making in the United States and abroad. 4 West produces only thermal coal for a nearby power plant, which will now rely on other local mines. 
"It's just come to a point where the mine is not economical to continue," said Brian Osborn, senior vice president for operations for Mepco Holdings, owner of the 4 West mine. 
The stress is being particularly felt here in Greene County, where coal mines have been closing for years, chewing-tobacco advertisements adorn the sides of barns, and graffiti claiming that the Environmental Protection Agency has "ruined this country" defaces the road sign at the entrance of one abandoned mine. 
Three coal mines are left here, after one closed nearly two years ago, laying off roughly 500 workers as its owner, Alpha Natural Resources, curtailed its operations while filing for bankruptcy protection. A total of 2,000 coal miners work in the county, but that number will be shaved by nearly 20 percent by June 1 after workers finish cleaning up the 4 West mine and remove equipment for the final closing. 
Blair Zimmerman, the chairman of the Greene County Board of Commissioners, estimated that the county's unemployment rate, currently 5.2 percent, will jump by 1.5 percentage points. 
"It's a major impact -- it's tax revenue, it's jobs, it's the housing market," said Mr. Zimmerman, a former coal mine worker and a Democrat. "If they can't make the wages here, they'll move away." 
Painful adjustments have already begun. Most of the miners said they would look for other mining jobs, and their company is giving them days off to go to interviews. 
William Laviolette, a 26-year-old maintenance worker at the mine who made roughly $55,000 last year, said that if he didn't find another mine job, he would go back to school to get his high school degree. 
He said he had cut his daily two-pack cigarette habit to one to save money. His wife, Ashley, has taken part-time work as a custodian at a furniture store, and the family has canceled a vacation to Walt Disney World. He has even stopped buying wood to make toys for his two children. 
"We just buy the essentials now, toilet paper and food," Mr. Laviolette said. "I was told we have at least 175 to 200 years of coal. Now I have to keep my eyes out for other jobs." 
Business has already dried up at bars and restaurants where the miners used to eat, shoot pool and joke around after work. "This is going to kill this community," said Debbie Bauza, a server at Huddle House, a favorite breakfast spot for workers getting off the overnight shift. 
Mr. Trump won 68 percent of the county's vote -- 10 percentage points more than Mitt Romney four years before -- with his promises to revive the coal industry. Most of the miners say they continue to support him despite their turn in fortunes. 
"He's trying his best," said Rick Glover, a 4 West mine conveyor-belt attendant. "You can't change the country overnight." 
Since taking office a year ago, Mr. Trump has renounced the Paris climate change agreement and sought to loosen a variety of regulations on mining and power plants. Some efforts have been delayed in court, and a recent administration effort to subsidize nuclear and coal-fired plants was shot down by regulators. 
Nevertheless, coal executives say the issuing of federal permits for mining operations has become more certain and quicker. 
"I would definitely say the Trump administration has benefited the industry," said Rachel Gleason, executive director of the Pennsylvania Coal Alliance. "I don't know if there are that many new policies, but many of the policies that were threatening the industry are no longer in play." 
Nationwide, there was a 1 percent increase in coal mining jobs last year, to just over 50,000, mostly because of an increase in mining metallurgical coal for export to Asia. There was a net increase of roughly 100 jobs in Pennsylvania, largely related to the opening of three new metallurgical coal mines. 
Coal prices in Asia soared after a cyclone knocked out production in Australia early last year, producing an opening for American exports. 
"I don't think that President Trump, when he promised to bring about a recovery in U.S. coal mining, intended to do it by way of boosting Chinese steel production," said Trevor Houser, a coal expert at Rhodium Group, an economic analysis firm. "That is what is driving the recovery." 
Energy experts say that coal exports should plateau this year, and that domestic consumption of thermal coal for electricity should continue its long decline. 
Even many coal-producing states are switching to natural gas for power, in part because, like Pennsylvania, they produce increasing amounts of shale gas. The power-fuel mix supplying the PJM regional transmission electrical grid, which serves 13 states including Pennsylvania, West Virginia and Kentucky, went from 55 percent coal and 8 percent natural gas in 2006 to 34 percent coal and 27 percent gas last year. 
The Energy Department projected this month that the price of natural gas would decline this year because of increased production and pipeline completions, and that its share of electricity generation would increase nationwide to 34 percent by 2019, from 32 percent. 
Over the same period, coal is to decline to 28 percent from 30 percent. Renewable sources not including hydroelectric power, which currently account for 10 percent of energy supplies, are expected to climb to 11 percent. 
At age 28, Mr. Zmija, like most of the coal mineworkers here, has not lost faith in the industry. He is considering applying for a coal job in Alabama, or he may return to his old mine job in Maryland, although it pays far less than the $106,000 he made last year at 4 West. A sign in his living room says, "I'm a proud coal miner." 
Still, he grumbles about the turn of fortune at 4 West, saying, "It feels like a slap in the face." 

Photograph 
The Closing of the 4 West Mine Will Put 370 People Out of Work, Including Nic Zmija, Left, Who Made $106,000 Last Year, and William Laviolette, Who with His Wife, Ashley, has Begun Making Sacrifices. (B1); Nic Zmija with His Son, Kolson, and Wife, Beth, at Their Home in Bobtown, Pa. Mr. Zmija Moved His Family From Maryland for a Better-Paying Mining Job at 4 West, Which Is Now Scheduled to Close. The Conveyor Belt at the Mine, Owned by Mepco Holdings. (Photographs by Andrew Spear for the New York Times) (B7) Chart: Power Shift: As More and More Electricity Is Produced by Natural Gas in the United States, the Number of Coal Plants has Declined to About 360 From Over 600 a Decade Ago. (Source: Energy Information Administration) (B7) 
Copyright New York Times Company Jan 25, 2018 
Subject 	Unemployment; 

Hydroelectric power; 
Abandoned mines; 
Electricity; 
Workers; 
Coal industry; 

Coal mining; 

Coal-fired power plants; 
Steel production; 
Employment; 

Natural gas; 
Industrywide conditions 


Location 	United States--US; Appalachia 
People 	Trump, Donald J 
Title 	Coal Country at the Crossroads: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Author 	Krauss, Clifford 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	B.1 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date  Jan 25, 2018  
Section  B  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1990762928  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1990762928?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Jan 25, 2018  
Last updated  2018-12-14  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 176 of 236 


Modi vs. Modi In Davos Talk On Free Trade: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Bradsher, Keith.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]24 Jan 2018: B.1. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Modi+vs.+Modi+In+Davos+Talk+On+Free+Trade%3A+%5BBusiness%2FFinanc 01-24&volume=&issue=&spage=B.1&au=Bradsher%2C+Keith&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
DAVOS, Switzerland -- Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India issued a strong call on Tuesday for nations to embrace globalization, combat climate change and strengthen international institutions like the World Trade Organization. 
"Forces of protectionism are raising their heads against globalization," Mr. Modi said during a speech to the World Economic Forum here. "Their intention is not only to avoid globalization, but they also want to reverse its natural flow." 
Notably missing from the speech was any mention of recent moves by Mr. Modi's own government to restrict imports into India as part of a broad industrial policy meant to force foreign companies to increase manufacturing operations in the country. In essence, he is pursuing a protectionist agenda, at odds with the mantra of globalization. 
Mr. Modi's speech reflects the tenor of the times. As President Trump pushes an "America First" strategy, global leaders are lining up to position themselves as a counterpoint, even if there is sometimes a disconnect between the rhetoric and the reality. 
In Davos last year, President Xi Jinping of China positioned himself as a champion of economic globalization in a rebuke to Mr. Trump, who, as president-elect at the time, was threatening to impose steep tariffs. Yet China has long bent the rules of commerce to fit its own needs. 
Mr. Modi is following a similar path in India, as he looks to nurture growth in his sprawling economy and to create jobs. 
Last month, India's government imposed stiff tariffs on imports of cellphones, video cameras and televisions. The move put heavy pressure on Apple, which ships most of the iPhones it sells in India from China, to do more manufacturing in India. 
Mr. Modi's government is also considering a recommendation by India's Directorate General of Safeguards, Customs and Central Excise that the country impose 70 percent tariffs on imported solar panels. Such a move would appear to conflict with Mr. Modi's call here for international action on climate change. Introducing such stiff tariffs could well encourage the production of more solar panels in India, but it could also make solar power far more expensive for Indian consumers and, in turn, hurt the fight against climate change. 
At 70 percent, the tariffs that India is considering on imported solar panels would be more than double those that the Trump administration said on Monday it would impose on such panels. Mr. Modi did not indicate in his speech what his government might decide on the issue. 
The Trump administration faces a dilemma of its own over whether to follow India's lead in placing tariffs on consumer electronics. Mr. Trump's trade advisers are considering whether to limit imports of such goods from China amid a broader dispute over whether Chinese companies are systematically violating American intellectual property. 
Mark Wu, a former trade negotiator for the United States who is now an assistant professor of trade law at Harvard University and who attended Mr. Modi's speech, said India faced a challenge in terms of imports: attracting foreign manufacturers without appearing to violate international trade norms. 
"While the prime minister articulated all the right messages on globalization at Davos, his government remains firmly committed to a strategy of leveraging its market size to drive industrial policies to spur greater high-tech manufacturing in India," Mr. Wu said. "This is bound to cause greater trade frictions ahead." 
In his speech, Mr. Modi echoed many of the pro-globalization themes expressed here last year by Mr. Xi, the leader of the country with the highest import tariffs of any large economy besides India. 
Although he did not mention China, Mr. Modi extolled India as a model of political openness and economic growth. "We Indians very well understand the importance of a democratic environment and freedoms," he said. 
China has begun to push hard in recent months to address its environmental problems, replacing coal-fired heating systems with natural gas where possible and closing factories that are heavy polluters. Pollution in India, which is at least a decade behind China in raising its citizens' standard of living, continues to increase. 
A ranking of countries on pollution and ecosystem protection released here on Tuesday showed India falling to 177 out of 180, down from 156 two years ago. By comparison, China was No. 120 on the list, which was compiled by Yale's Center for Environmental Law and Policy. 
"They are driving economic growth, but not paying attention to what I would call the parallel challenge of sustainable development: avoiding environmental degradation," Daniel Esty, the center's director, said of India. 
As in the United States, industrial policies in India meant to foster domestic manufacturing can collide with a push by environmentalists and clean-energy electric utilities for solar panels, even imported ones, to be deployed as widely and as cheaply as possible. Among the other people attending Mr. Modi's speech was Sumant Sinha, chairman and chief executive of ReNew Power Ventures, a company based on the outskirts of New Delhi that builds clean energy projects. 
Mr. Sinha said he admired Mr. Modi's efforts to make it easier for foreign and domestic companies alike to do business in India. But he said he also worried that if the recommendation for 70 percent tariffs on imported solar panels were adopted, solar energy could become unaffordable for many Indians. 
"The person buying the power would like the cost of the power to be as low as possible," he said. 
Devendra Fadnavis, the chief minister of Maharashtra, the vast Indian state that includes Mumbai and big manufacturing cities like Pune, also attended Mr. Modi's speech. He said that he saw growing interest among companies from outside India to manufacture in the country. Foxconn, the giant Taiwanese manufacturer that produces the bulk of Apple's consumer electronics, is in negotiations with Maharashtra officials to set up a large factory there. 
Maharashtra has offered Foxconn land at a major Mumbai port as a way of addressing the company's concerns about transportation links, Mr. Fadnavis said. But he also offered a strong defense of India's tariffs on imports, saying that the country's large number of poor farmers made it important to proceed carefully. 
"We want to open the door," he said. "On the other hand, we want to protect our domestic concerns, like food security and the farmers." 

AuthorAffiliation 
KEITH BRADSHER Follow Keith Bradsher on Twitter: @KeithBradsher. 

Photograph 
At Davos On Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi Extolled India As a Model of Political Openness and Economic Growth. (Photograph by Fabrice Coffrini/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) (B3) 
Copyright New York Times Company Jan 24, 2018 
Subject 	Industrial policy; 

Manufacturing; 
Globalization; 
Tariffs; 

Economic growth; 

Speeches; 
Environmental impact; 
Factories; 
Climate change; 
Economic summit conferences; 
Global economy; 

Protectionism 


Location 	Switzerland; United States--US; India; China; Mumbai India; Davos Switzerland 
People 	Trump, Donald J; Modi, Narendra; Xi Jinping 
Company / organization 	Name: World Economic Forum 

NAICS: 926110; 

Name: World Trade Organization NAICS: 928120 
Title 	Modi vs. Modi In Davos Talk On Free Trade: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Author 	Bradsher, Keith 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	B.1 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Jan 24, 2018 
Section 	B 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1990251633  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1990251633?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Jan 24, 2018  
Last updated  2018-01-24  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 177 of 236 


Pulling Punches in Climate Change Fight: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Porter, Eduardo.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]24 Jan 2018: B.1. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Pulling+Punches+in+Climate+Change+Fight%3A+%5BBusiness%2FFinancial+D 01-24&volume=&issue=&spage=B.1&au=Porter%2C+Eduardo&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
In 1988, when world leaders convened their first global conference on climate change, in Toronto, the Earth's average temperature was a bit more than half a degree Celsius above the average of the last two decades of the 19th century, according to measurements by NASA. 
Global emissions of greenhouse gases amounted to the equivalent of some 30 billion tons of carbon dioxide a year -- excluding those from deforestation and land use. Worried about its accumulation, the gathered scientists and policymakers called on the world to cut CO2 emissions by a fifth. 
That didn't happen, of course. By 1997, when climate diplomats from the world's leading nations gathered to negotiate a round of emissions cuts in Kyoto, Japan, emissions had risen to some 35 billion tons and the global surface temperature was roughly 0.7 of a degree Celsius above the average of the late 19th century. 
It took almost two decades for the next breakthrough. When diplomats from virtually every country gathered in Paris just over two years ago to hash out another agreement to combat climate change, the world's surface temperature was already about 1.1 degrees Celsius above its average at the end of the 1800s. And greenhouse gas emissions totaled just under 50 billion tons. 
This is not to belittle diplomacy. Maybe this is the best we can do. How can countries be persuaded to adopt expensive strategies to drop fossil fuels when the prospective impact of climate change remains uncertain and fixing the problem requires collective action? As mitigation by an individual country will benefit all, nations will be tempted to take a free ride on the efforts of others. And no country will be able to solve the problem on its own. 
Still, the world's diplomatic meanderings -- from the ineffectual call in Toronto for a reduction in emissions to the summit meeting in Paris, where each country was allowed simply to pledge whatever it could to the global effort -- suggest that the diplomats, policymakers and environmentalists trying to slow climate change still cannot cope with its unforgiving math. They are, instead, trying to ignore it. And that will definitely not work. 
The world is still warming. Both NASA and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration reported last week that global temperatures last year receded slightly from the record-setting 2016, because there was no El Niño heating up the Pacific. 
While the world frets over President Trump's decision to withdraw the United States from the Paris agreement, I would argue that the greatest impediment to slowing this relentless warming is an illusion of progress that is allowing every country to sidestep many of the hard choices that still must be made. 
"We keep doing the same thing over and over again and expecting a different outcome," said Scott Barrett, an expert on international cooperation and coordination at Columbia University who was once a lead author of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. 
Climate diplomats in Paris didn't merely reassert prior commitments to keep the world's temperature less than 2 degrees above that of the "preindustrial" era -- a somewhat fuzzy term that could be taken to mean the second half of the 19th century. Hoping to appease island nations like the Maldives, which are likely to be swallowed by a rising ocean in a few decades, they set a new "aspirational" ceiling of 1.5 degrees. 
To stick to a 2-degree limit, we would have to start reducing global emissions for real within about a decade at most -- and then do more. Half a century from now, we would have to figure out how to suck vast amounts of carbon out of the air. Keeping the lid at 1.5 degrees would be much harder still. 
Yet when experts tallied the offers made in Paris by all the countries in the collective effort, they concluded that greenhouse gas emissions in 2030 would exceed the level needed to remain under 2 degrees by 12 billion to 14 billion tons of CO2. 
Are there better approaches? The "climate club" proposed by the Yale University economist William Nordhaus has the advantage of including an enforcement device, which current arrangements lack: Countries in the club, committed to reducing carbon emissions, would impose a tariff on imports from nonmembers to encourage them to join. 
Martin Weitzman of Harvard University supports the idea of a uniform worldwide tax on carbon emissions, which might be easier to agree on than a panoply of national emissions cuts. One clear advantage is that countries could use their tax revenues as they saw fit. 
Mr. Barrett argues that the Paris agreement could be supplemented with narrower, simpler deals to curb emissions of particular gases -- such as the 2016 agreement at a 170­nation meeting in Kigali, Rwanda, to reduce hydrofluorocarbon emissions -- or in particular industries, like aviation or steel. 
Maybe none of this would work. The climate club could blow up if nonmembers retaliated against import tariffs by imposing trade barriers of their own. Coordinating taxes around the world looks at least as difficult as addressing climate change. And Mr. Barrett's proposal might not deliver a breakthrough on the scale necessary to move the dial. 
But what definitely won't suffice is a climate strategy built out of wishful thinking: the proposition that countries can be cajoled and prodded into increasing their ambition to cut emissions further, and that laggards can be named and shamed into falling into line. 
Inveigled by three decades of supposed diplomatic progress -- coupled with falling prices of wind turbines, solar panels and batteries -- the activists, technologists and policymakers driving the strategy against climate change seem to have concluded that the job can be done without unpalatable choices. And the group is closing doors that it would do best to keep open. 
There is no momentum for investing in carbon capture and storage, since it could be seen as condoning the continued use of fossil fuels. Nuclear energy, the only source of low-carbon power ever deployed at the needed scale, is also anathema. Geoengineering, like pumping aerosols into the atmosphere to reflect the sun's heat back into space, is another taboo. 
But eventually, these options will most likely be on the table, as the consequences of climate change come more sharply into focus. The rosy belief that the world can reduce its carbon dependency over a few decades by relying exclusively on the power of shame, the wind and the sun will give way to a more realistic understanding of possibilities. 
Some set of countries will decide to forget Paris and deploy a few jets to pump sulfur dioxide into the upper atmosphere to cool the world temporarily. There will be a race to develop techniques to harvest and store carbon from the atmosphere, and another to build nuclear generators at breakneck speed. 
It will probably be too late to prevent the Maldives from ending up underwater. But better late than never. 

AuthorAffiliation 
EDUARDO PORTER eporter@nytimes.com; Twitter: @portereduardo 

Photograph 
A Coal-Fired Power Plant in Ghent, Ky. Despite Decades of Diplomacy, Temperatures Are Rising As Nations Forgo Effective Strategies. (Photograph by Luke Sharrett for the New York Times) (B1); Playing On Rebar After a Flood in Kiribati, in the Central Pacific. To Curb Warming, Countries Must Commit to Major Cuts in Emissions. (Photograph by Josh Haner/the New York Times) (B4) Charts: Warmer and Warmer: The Balance After 30 Years of Climate Diplomacy: A Hotter World with More Greenhouse Gases. (Sources: Nasa (Temperatures); Intergovernmental Panel On Climate Change (Emissions) ) (B4) 
Copyright New York Times Company Jan 24, 2018 
Subject 	Emissions; 

Diplomatic & consular services; 

Geoengineering; 
19th century; 

Greenhouse effect; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Climate change; 
Greenhouse gases; 
Atmosphere; 

Fossil fuels; 
Carbon dioxide; 
Coal-fired power plants; 
Paris Agreement; 

International; 
Diplomacy; 
Environmental policy 


People 	Trump, Donald J 
Title 	Pulling Punches in Climate Change Fight: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Author 	Porter, Eduardo 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	B.1 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Jan 24, 2018 
column 	Economic Scene 
Section 	B 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1990251047  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1990251047?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Jan 24, 2018  
Last updated  2018-01-24  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 178 of 236 


Powering Bitcoin: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Popper, Nathaniel.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]22 Jan 2018: B.1. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Powering+Bitcoin%3A+%5BBusiness%2FFinancial+Desk%5D&title=New+York+T 01-22&volume=&issue=&spage=B.1&au=Popper%2C+Nathaniel&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
SAN FRANCISCO -- Creating a new Bitcoin requires electricity. A lot of it. 
In the virtual currency world this creation process is called "mining." There is no physical digging, since Bitcoins are purely digital. But the computer power needed to create each digital token consumes at least as much electricity as the average American household burns through in two years, according to figures from Morgan Stanley and Alex de Vries, an economist who tracks energy use in the industry. 
The total network of computers plugged into the Bitcoin network consumes as much energy each day as some medium-size countries -- which country depends on whose estimates you believe. And the network supporting Ethereum, the second-most valuable virtual currency, gobbles up another country's worth of electricity each day. 
The energy consumption of these systems has risen as the prices of virtual currencies have skyrocketed, leading to a vigorous debate among Bitcoin and Ethereum enthusiasts about burning so much electricity. 
The creator of Ethereum, Vitalik Buterin, is leading an experiment with a more energy-efficient way to create tokens, in part because of his concern about the impact that the network's electricity use could have on global warming. 
"I would personally feel very unhappy if my main contribution to the world was adding Cyprus's worth of electricity consumption to global warming," Mr. Buterin said in an interview. 
But many virtual currency aficionados argue that the energy consumption is worth it for the grander cause of securing the Bitcoin and Ethereum networks and making a new kind of financial infrastructure, free from the meddling of banks or governments. 
"The electricity usage is really essential," said Peter Van Valkenburgh, the director of research at Coin Center, a group that advocates for virtual currency technology. "Because of the costs, we know the only people participating are serious, that they are economically invested. That creates the incentives for cooperation." 
This dispute has its foundations in the complex systems that produce tokens like Bitcoin; Ether, the currency on the Ethereum network; and many other new virtual currencies. 
All of the computers trying to mine tokens are in a computational race, trying to find a particular, somewhat random answer to a math algorithm. The algorithm is so complicated that the only way to find the desired answer is to make lots of different guesses. The more guesses a computer makes, the better its chances of winning. But each time the computers try new guesses, they use computational power and electricity. 
The lure of new Bitcoins encourages people to use lots of fast computers, and lots of electricity, to find the right answer and unlock the new Bitcoins that are distributed every 10 minutes or so. 
This process was defined by the original Bitcoin software, released in 2009. The goal was to distribute new coins to people on the Bitcoin network without a central institution handing out the money. 
Early on, it was possible to win the contest with just a laptop computer. But the rules of the network dictate that as more computers join in the race, the algorithm automatically adjusts to get harder, requiring anyone who wants to compete to use more computers and more electricity. 
These days, the 12.5 Bitcoins that are handed out every 10 minutes or so are worth about $145,000, so people have been willing to invest astronomical sums to participate in this race, which has in turn made the race harder. This explains why there are now enormous server farms around the world dedicated to mining Bitcoin. 
This process is central to Bitcoin's existence because in the process of mining, all the computers are also serving as accountants for the Bitcoin network. The algorithm the computers solve requires them to also keep track of all the new transactions coming onto the network. 
The mining race is meant to be hard so that no one can dominate the accounting and fudge the records. In the 2008 paper that first described Bitcoin, the mysterious creator of the virtual currency, Satoshi Nakamoto, wrote that the system was designed to thwart a "greedy attacker" who might want to alter the records and "defraud people by stealing back his payments." Because of the mining and accounting rules, the attacker "ought to find it more profitable to play by the rules." 
The rules have kept attackers at bay in the nine years since the network got going. Without this process, most computer scientists agree, Bitcoin would not work. 
But there is disagreement over the real value of Bitcoin and the network that supports it. 
For people who consider Bitcoin nothing more than a speculative bubble -- or a speculative bubble that has enabled online drug sales and ransom payments -- any new contribution toward global warming is probably not worth it. 
But Bitcoin aficionados counter that it has allowed for the creation of the first financial network with no government or company in charge. In countries like Zimbabwe and Argentina, Bitcoin has sometimes provided a more stable place to park money than the local currency. And in countries with more stable economies, Bitcoin has led to a flurry of new investments, jobs and start-up companies. 
"Labeling Bitcoin mining as a 'waste' is a failure to look at the big picture," Marc Bevand, a miner and analyst, wrote on his blog. The jobs alone, he added, "are a direct, measurable and positive impact that Bitcoin already made on the economy." 
But even some people who are interested in all that innovation have worried about the enormous electrical use. 
Mr. de Vries, who keeps track of the use on the site Digiconomist, estimated that each Bitcoin transaction currently required 80,000 times more electricity to process than each Visa credit card transaction, for example. 
"Visa is more centralized," Mr. de Vries said. "If you really distrust the financial system, maybe that is unattractive. But is that difference really worth the additional energy cost? I think for most people that is probably not worth the case." 
The figures published by Mr. de Vries have been criticized by Mr. Bevand and other Bitcoin fans, who say they overstate the energy costs by a factor of about three. Many critics add that producing and securing physical money and gold also require lots of energy, in some cases as much as or more than Bitcoin uses. 
Mr. Van Valkenburgh, of the Coin Center, has argued that Bitcoin miners, who can do the work anywhere, have an incentive to situate themselves near cheap, often green energy sources, especially now that coal-guzzling China appears to be exiting the mining business. Several mining companies have opened server farms near geothermal energy in Iceland and hydroelectric power in Washington State. 
But the concerns about electricity use have still hit home with many in the industry. The virtual currencies known as Ripple and Stellar, which were created after Bitcoin, were designed not to require electrically demanding mining. 
Perhaps the biggest change could come from the new mining process proposed by Mr. Buterin for Ethereum, a process that some smaller currencies are already using. Known as "proof of stake," it distributes new coins to people who are able to prove their ownership of existing coins -- their stake in the system. The current method, which relies so heavily on computational power, is called "proof of work." Under that method, the accounts and people who get new coins don't need existing tokens. They just need lots of computers to take part in the computational race. 
Energy concerns are not the only factor encouraging the move. Mr. Buterin also believes that the new method, which is likely to be rolled out over the next year, will allow for a less centralized network of computers overseeing the system. 
But it is far from clear that the method will be as secure as the one used by Bitcoin. Mr. Buterin has been fiercely attacked by Bitcoin advocates, who say his proposal will lose the qualities that make virtual currencies valuable. 
Mr. Van Valkenburgh said that for now, throwing lots of computing power into the mix -- and the electricity that it burns -- was the only proven solution to the problems Bitcoin solves. 
"At the moment, if you want robust security, you need proof of work," he said. 

Photograph 
Photo (B1); Bitcoin Mining in Inner Mongolia. Bitcoins Are Made About Every 10 Minutes but Require Immense Power to Be Unlocked. (Photographs by Giulia Marchi for the New York Times) (B4) 
Copyright New York Times Company Jan 22, 2018 
Subject 	Currency; 

Coins; 
Global warming; 
Computers; 
Farm buildings; 

Algorithms; 
Electricity; 
Energy consumption; 

Digital currencies; 

Hydroelectric power; 
Computer networks 


Location 	United States--US 
Company / organization 	Name: Bitcoin Foundation 

NAICS: 522320, 813910 


Title  Powering Bitcoin: [Business/Financial Desk]  
Author  Popper, Nathaniel  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.1  

Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Jan 22, 2018  
Section  B  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1989476595  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1989476595?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Jan 22, 2018  
Last updated  2018-12-14  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 179 of 236 


De Blasio Unveils 2 Steps To Take On Fossil Fuels: [Metropolitan Desk] 
Neuman, William.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]11 Jan 2018: A.23. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=De+Blasio+Unveils+2+Steps+To+Take+On+Fossil+Fuels%3A+%5BMetropolitan 01-11&volume=&issue=&spage=A.23&au=Neuman%2C+William&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Seeking to position himself as a national leader against climate change, Mayor Bill de Blasio on Wednesday announced a two-pronged attack against the fossil-fuel industry, including a vow that city pension funds would divest about $5 billion from companies involved in the fossil fuel business. 
The mayor also announced a lawsuit against five major oil companies, seeking to collect billions of dollars in damages to pay for city efforts to cope with the effects of climate change. 
"This city is standing up and saying, 'We're going to take our own actions to protect our own people,"' the mayor said, wearing a green necktie and sitting in front of large green sign that said "NYC: Leading the Fight Against Climate Change." He added, "We're not waiting." 
But in fact the city will have to wait, potentially for many years. 
The mayor acknowledged that the lawsuit, which he compared to successful lawsuits against large tobacco companies, could take years to reach a resolution. 
The city lawsuit says that the oil companies -- BP, Chevron, Conoco Phillips, Exxon Mobil and Royal Dutch Shell -- were aware for years that burning fossil fuels caused climate change but hid the conclusions of their own scientists. It says that the city has spent billions of dollars and will spend billions more to deal with the consequences of climate change, such as the effects of Sandy, and it seeks to hold the companies responsible for those costs. 
Similar lawsuits were filed last year against oil companies by San Francisco and Oakland; the California counties of Marin and San Mateo and the City of Imperial Beach; and the City of Santa Cruz and Santa Cruz County. 
"Reducing greenhouse gas emissions is a global issue and requires global participation and actions," Exxon Mobil said in an emailed statement. "Lawsuits of this kind -- filed by trial attorneys against an industry that provides products we all rely upon to power the economy and enable our domestic life -- simply do not do that." 
A spokesman for Chevron responded in similar terms, saying the lawsuit would "do nothing to address the serious issue of climate change." 
Eric A. Goldstein, a senior lawyer with the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental group, had a different view, calling the lawsuit a "classic example of impact litigation that's designed to upend the existing order." He said that lawsuits targeting the tobacco industry were once considered long shots but ended up being successful. 
The city comptroller, Scott M. Stringer, who sat next to Mr. de Blasio at the news conference, tempered his enthusiasm on the pension divestments, saying, "We're setting a formal goal to divest from fossil fuels." He added that any decision would be complex, take time and must be viewed through a "lens of sound fiscal stewardship." He said the goal was to complete the divestment within five years. 
Trustees for the city's five pension funds would need to approve any divestment, weighing its effect on the funds' performance. A resolution submitted on Wednesday to the boards of the five funds called for them to "initiate a process for determining a prudent divestment" strategy in keeping with the fiduciary duty to responsibly manage the funds. It called for the boards to hire a consultant to study the issue and its impact on risk and return. 
Mr. de Blasio said that a majority of the trustees on two of the funds -- one for teachers and another for many employees not including police officers or firefighters -- were ready to support divestment. 
Some participants in the news conference noted that under Mayor de Blasio, the city's pension funds had previously divested from companies involved in the coal industry, as well as from private prison companies. But those investments represented a total of about $60 million, far less than the estimated $5 billion invested in fossil fuel companies. The total amount managed by the funds is about $189 billion. 
The divestment announcement comes less than a month after Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo promised to cease the state's investments in entities "with significant fossil-fuel activities," and created an advisory committee to "develop a decarbonization road map." 
The news conference Wednesday was held at a Lower Manhattan community center that Mr. de Blasio said had been flooded during Hurricane Sandy. It was attended by activists wearing buttons calling for divestment, who applauded frequently as Mr. de Blasio, Mr. Stringer and other officials spoke. 
Mr. de Blasio has made other grandiose pledges to combat climate change. Last September he announced that the city would force the owners of large buildings, including apartment houses and office buildings, to retrofit them to save energy. But what he ultimately revealed was a vague plan that needed to be fleshed out and then enacted by the City Council, which quickly distanced itself from the announcement. 
Mr. de Blasio is also opposed to creating a congestion pricing scheme that would charge vehicles entering parts of Manhattan, in order to reduce driving and finance public transit. Advocates say such a scheme would also help fight climate change, but Mr. de Blasio says that it would be unfair to poorer drivers and drivers from outside Manhattan. 
He has also been criticized for frequently driving to Brooklyn from Gracie Mansion in Manhattan to go the gym, and for the little he has done to improve the energy efficiency of two homes he owns in Brooklyn. 
Credit: WILLIAM NEUMAN; John Schwartz and Jesse McKinley contributed reporting. 

Photograph 
Mayor Bill de Blasio, Far Left, Said City Pension Funds Would Divest About $5 Billion From Fossil Fuel Companies. (Photograph by Hiroko Masuike/the New York Times) 
Copyright New York Times Company Jan 11, 2018 
Subject 	Pension funds; 

Mayors; 
Fossil fuels; 
Petroleum industry; 

Environmental policy; 
Climate change; 
Divestments; 
Litigation 


Location 	New York City New York 
People 	de Blasio, Bill 
Title 	De Blasio Unveils 2 Steps To Take On Fossil Fuels: [Metropolitan Desk] 
Author 	Neuman, William 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.23 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Jan 11, 2018 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	General Interest Periodicals--United States 
ISSN 	03624331 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	News 
ProQuest document ID 	1986282034 
Document URL 	https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1986282034?accountid=14902 
Copyright 	Copyright New York Times Company Jan 11, 2018 
Last updated 	2018-01-12 
Database 	Global Newsstream 

document 180 of 236 


How a Coal Baron's Wish List Became Trump's To-Do List: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Friedman, Lisa.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]10 Jan 2018: B.1. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=How+a+Coal+Baron%27s+Wish+List+Became+Trump%27s+To­Do+List%3A+%5BBusiness%2FFinancial+Desk%5D&title=New+York+Times&issn=03624331&date=2018-01­10&volume=&issue=&spage=B.1&au=Friedman%2C+Lisa&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Want the latest climate news in your inbox? You can sign up here to receive Climate Fwd:, our new email newsletter. 
WASHINGTON -- President Trump's first year in office has been a boon for the coal industry, with the Trump administration rolling back regulations on coal-fired power plants and withdrawing the United States from the Paris climate change agreement. 
Environmentalists have expressed alarm at the new direction, and have complained that Mr. Trump was following a blueprint from the coal industry. A confidential memo written by the head of the country's largest coal mining company suggests they might not be wrong. 
The memo was written by Robert E. Murray, a longtime Trump supporter who donated $300,000 to the president's inauguration. In it, Mr. Murray, the head of Murray Energy, presented Mr. Trump with a wish list of environmental rollbacks just weeks after the inauguration. 
Nearly a year later, the White House and federal agencies have completed or are on track to fulfill most of the 16 detailed requests, even with Monday's decision by federal regulators to reject a proposal by Energy Secretary Rick Perry to subsidize struggling coal and nuclear plants. 
The March 1 memo, which was obtained by Senator Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island and shared with The New York Times, is addressed to Vice President Mike Pence. The sweeping wish list of regulatory overhauls includes ending regulations on greenhouse gas emissions and ozone and mine safety, as well as cutting the staff of the Environmental Protection Agency "at least in half" and overhauling the Labor Department's office of mine safety. 
"I give President Trump and his administration credit for being bold, being passionate and being correct in addressing a lot of these issues that were on my list here," Mr. Murray said in an interview Tuesday. 
Photographs of portions of a different memo, dated March 23 and addressed to Rick Perry, the secretary of the Department of Energy, were obtained by the magazine In These Times last year. They were taken during a meeting Mr. Murray held on March 29 with Mr. Perry and others at the Energy Department, according to the magazine. 
Mr. Murray on Tuesday described the memos as very similar. 
The March 1 "Action Plan for the Administration of President Donald J. Trump" is aimed, Mr. Murray wrote in the memo, at "getting America's coal miners back to work." He also asks the federal government to cut funding for carbon capture and sequestration technology -- which Mr. Murray called "a pseudonym for 'no coal"' -- and eliminate a 2009 
E.P.A. ruling known as the endangerment finding that was the legal justification for much of the Obama administration's climate change policy. 
"This list was to remain private, a list of things that needed to be done for reliable, low-cost electricity in America. That was my number one goal here, was to give guidance to the administration in an area that I have observed over 60 years," Mr. Murray said. 
Critics say Mr. Murray's list and the apparent ease with which he was able to get it in front of cabinet officials and others illustrates the open-door access the Trump administration has offered energy and other industries as it moves to redirect and weaken federal regulations. 
"The astonishing presumption of this list," Mr. Whitehouse, a Democrat, said. "It's an extraordinary arrogance of the fossil fuel industry based on the power they wield in Washington, D.C." He said even though Mr. Murray had bragged about the action plan on a Frontline documentary last year, the Energy Department had declined his requests to immediately release the memo. 
"The power of the fossil fuel industry around here is so great I think the industry feels they can count on simply not complying with requests," Mr. Whitehouse said. 
The Energy Department did not respond to a request to discuss the memos from Mr. Murray. 
The Trump administration has had an unusually close relationship with Mr. Murray. He and 10 of his miners were invited to watch the president sign an executive order to rollback President Obama's climate change regulations. He has met with Mr. Perry to discuss the needs of coal producers. His longtime attorney, Andrew Wheeler, is awaiting Senate confirmation to the No. 2 slot at the E.P.A., and David Zatezalo, the nation's new top mine safety and health regulator and previously the president of a coal mining company, told his hometown paper that Mr. Murray had encouraged him to put his hat in the ring for the job. 
Jeffrey Holmstead, a lawyer with the firm Bracewell and a deputy administrator of the E.P.A. in the George W. Bush administration, called Mr. Murray's action plan "an ambitious list." While interest groups always try to influence policy in a new administration, Mr. Holmstead said Mr. Murray's status with the administration set him apart. 
"I really don't think it's at all unusual that Murray would have this wish list or a set of recommendations. What makes it different is that it's pretty clear that he has a personal relationship with the president," Mr. Holmstead said. "It seems like given Mr. Murray's relationship with the president that he had more of an expectation that these things were going to be accepted or implemented." 
One item not on the list yet important to Mr. Murray was an order the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission rejected Monday to subsidize struggling coal and nuclear power plants. Mr. Murray railed against that decision saying it would lead to the decommissioning of coal and nuclear power plants. 
Environmental groups have accused Mr. Murray of directly asking Mr. Perry for a proposed rule to reward coal and nuclear power plants for providing "grid resiliency." The March 1 memo does not mention the grid, though photographs of the cover page of the March 23 document to Mr. Perry obtained by In These Times shows its focus is "a plan for achieving reliable and low cost electricity." 
Soon after Mr. Murray's meeting at D.O.E., Mr. Perry ordered the agency to prepare a study on the country's electric grid reliability, a precursor to ordering the federal government to subsidize struggling coal and nuclear plants. 
Mr. Murray and a spokesman, Gary Broadbent, said the difference between the two memos was that the one provided to Mr. Perry asked the Energy Department to study the security of the nation's power grid. 
"I suggested that the study be made," Mr. Murray said. "What they did from there, the administration did. I did not have involvement in it." 
One of the items on the 16-point list was an overhaul of FERC regulators, and the Trump administration accomplished that. But those Trump-appointed commissioners voted against the plan to bail out coal and nuclear. 
"Obviously they forgot who appointed them right out of the box," Mr. Murray said. 
Follow @NYTClimate on Twitter 
Credit: LISA FRIEDMAN; Eric Lipton contributed reporting. 

Photograph 
Photo (B1); Robert E. Murray; a Murray Energy Port Facility in Ohio. The Chief Executive of Murray Donated $300,000 to President Trump's Inauguration. (Photograph by Joshua Roberts/Reuters) (B5) 
Copyright New York Times Company Jan 10, 2018 
Subject 	Fossil fuels; 
Business government relations; 
Risk management; 

Environmental regulations; 

Regulatory reform; 
Coal mining; 

Energy policy; 
Energy industry; 

Climate change; 
Nuclear power plants 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Trump, Donald J; Murray, Robert E 
Company / organization 	Name: Murray Energy Corp 

NAICS: 212112 


Title 	How a Coal Baron's Wish List Became Trump's To-Do List: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Author 	Friedman, Lisa 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	B.1 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Jan 10, 2018 
Section 	B 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1986034383  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1986034383?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Jan 10, 2018  
Last updated  2018-01-17  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 181 of 236 


Plan to Rescue Coal and Nuclear Plants Is Rejected: [National Desk] 
Plumer, Brad.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]09 Jan 2018: A.16. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Plan+to+Rescue+Coal+and+Nuclear+Plants+Is+Rejected%3A+%5BNational+De 01-09&volume=&issue=&spage=A.16&au=Plumer%2C+Brad&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- Federal regulators on Monday rejected a proposal by Energy Secretary Rick Perry to subsidize struggling coal and nuclear plants, in a major blow to the Trump administration's efforts to revive America's declining coal industry. 
Over the past decade, an influx of cheap natural gas and the rapid rise of renewable energy have transformed the nation's power sector, driving down wholesale electricity prices and pushing many older coal and nuclear plants into unprofitability and retirement. 
In September, Mr. Perry warned that the loss of these plants could threaten the "reliability and resiliency of our nation's grid" and asked the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, which oversees regional electricity markets, to guarantee financial returns for power plants that can stockpile at least 90 days' worth of fuel on-site -- which, in effect, meant propping up uncompetitive coal and nuclear units. (Natural gas plants are typically fed by pipeline and would not qualify.) 
While a few utilities with significant coal and nuclear capacity supported the idea, Mr. Perry's proposal generated a fierce backlash from a broad coalition of energy companies, free-market groups and former regulators. 
Critics argued that Mr. Perry's proposal would upend competition in the nation's electricity markets, which have been deregulated in much of the country since the 1990s and currently tend to favor the lowest-cost sources of power. 
Opponents of Mr. Perry's proposal also pointed out that blackouts usually occurred because of problems with transmission lines -- not because power plants had insufficient fuel on site. 
In its decision, the commission largely sided with the critics, noting that grid operators have so far proven adept at keeping the lights on even as natural gas, wind and solar have crowded out baseload coal and nuclear plants, which were once favored by utilities because they can reliably generate power at all hours of the day. 
"There is no evidence in the record to suggest that temporarily delaying the retirement of uncompetitive coal and nuclear generators would meaningfully improve the resilience of the grid," wrote Commissioner Richard Glick, concurring with the agency's decision to reject the proposal. "Rather, the record demonstrates that, if a threat to grid resilience exists, the threat lies mostly with the transmission and distribution systems, where virtually all significant disruptions occur." 
The agency did add, however, that it would investigate potential threats to the resilience of the grid from natural disasters and other disruptions, giving grid operators 60 days to submit comment. At that time, it could issue a new order to tweak rules in competitive electricity markets. 
"I appreciate the Commission's consideration and effort to further assess the marketplace distortions that are putting the long-term resiliency of our electric grid at risk," Mr. Perry said in a statement. "As intended, my proposal initiated a national debate on the resiliency of our electric system." 
President Trump has vowed to revive the ailing coal-mining industry, and his administration has moved to relax a variety of climate and pollution regulations on the nation's coal plants. So far, however, those rollbacks have failed to halt the market forces that continue to drive coal plants into retirement. Last year, utilities announced plans to shut down more than 22 gigawatts of coal capacity across the country, and more retirements are expected this year. 
Mr. Perry's proposal was the most aggressive move yet in support of coal and nuclear power and would have shielded a number of plants in the Midwest and Mid-Atlantic from those competitive forces. An analysis by Resources for the Future estimated that the rule, if enacted, would have prevented the retirement of 25 gigawatts of coal capacity and 20 gigawatts of nuclear capacity. The analysis found that the proposal would have cost electricity users an extra $72 billion through 2045. 
While coal is more polluting than natural gas, nuclear plants do not produce any emissions, and some states like New York have moved to rescue their ailing reactors to help combat climate change. The commission's decision would not affect those state efforts. 
The commission's unanimous decision to reject Mr. Perry's proposal is final. While four of the five members of the commission were nominated by Mr. Trump, the agency has historically operated independently of the executive branch and tends to be protective of the competitive market structure built up over the past three decades. 
"There is clearly a broad consensus among commissioners of both parties that the carefully constructed competitive power markets that FERC has created over the last 30 years are keeping consumer prices low," said Paul Bledsoe, a former Clinton White House climate change adviser. "The notion of subsidizing coal and nuclear and thereby raising consumer prices is anathema to Trump appointees and Democrats alike." 
Follow @NYTClimate on Twitter 
Photograph 
Energy Secretary Rick Perry Had Sought to Guarantee Financial Returns for Plants That Stockpile at Least 90 Days' Worth of Fuel. (Photograph by Zach Gibson/Bloomberg, Via 
Getty Images) 
Copyright New York Times Company Jan 9, 2018 

Subject  Consumer Price Index;  
Coal-fired power plants;  
Energy industry;  
Climate change;  
Nuclear power plants;  
Natural gas;  
Competition;  
Government subsidies;  
Energy policy;  
Federal regulation  
Location  United States--US  
People  Perry, Rick  
Company / organization  Name: Department of Energy  
NAICS: 926130  
Title  Plan to Rescue Coal and Nuclear Plants Is Rejected: [National Desk]  
Author  Plumer, Brad  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.16  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Jan 9, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1985749581  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1985749581?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Jan 9, 2018  
Last updated  2018-01-09  
Database  Global Newsstream  


document 182 of 236 


Fight Over Environmental Policy Is Just Getting Started: [National Desk] 
Friedman, Lisa.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]06 Jan 2018: A.14. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Fight+Over+Environmental+Policy+Is+Just+Getting+Started%3A+%5BNational 01-06&volume=&issue=&spage=A.14&au=Friedman%2C+Lisa&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Want the latest climate news in your inbox? You can sign up here to receive Climate Fwd:, our new email newsletter. 
WASHINGTON -- If 2017 was the Trump administration's year of grand pronouncements declaring an end to environmental regulations, 2018 will be the year of trying to finish what it started. Despite President Trump's proclamation in the Rose Garden that the United States will withdraw from the Paris climate agreement, the United States is still in the Paris 
agreement. Despite a trip by Scott Pruitt, the head of the Environmental Protection Agency, to Kentucky coal country to announce an end to the Clean Power Plan rule curbing coal plant emissions, the Clean Power Plan still stands. And a host of other federal regulations, from controls on methane emissions to protections for wetlands, remain on the books despite executive orders declaring them void. 
The administration opened the new year by proposing to reverse a ban on offshore oil and gas drilling in most United States coastal waters. But environmentalists and proponents of deregulation alike say they expect fewer high-profile announcements over all and more action in the courts, where both sides will fight over the future of deregulation. 
"You may not see as many fireworks as there were in the past, but I think it's going to be an even more significant year," predicted Representative Rob Bishop, Republican of 
Utah and the chairman of the House Natural Resources Committee. 
Here are some things to look for in 2018: 

The Clean Power Plan isn't dead yet 
Mr. Pruitt put forward a formal plan in October to eliminate the Clean Power Plan, the Obama-era regulation restricting emissions from new coal-fired power plants. But analysts 
say the road to getting rid of the regulation is still a long one. 

The public has a chance to weigh in on the effort until Jan. 16. But the E.P.A. recently announced that new hearings would be held in San Francisco, Gillette, Wyo., and Kansas 

City, Mo. The dates have not been scheduled, but the meetings could push back the comment period and by extension progress on the full repeal. 
The agency has indicated it plans to devise a new, narrower version of the regulation. Yet so far, all it has done is ask the public for thoughts on what a new rule should look 
like. 

"They're nowhere near the end of the line on the Clean Power Plan," said David Doniger, director of the Climate and Clean Energy Program at the Natural Resources Defense Council. If the E.P.A. kills the regulation before it moves forward with a replacement, Mr. Doniger said, the agency could be vulnerable to lawsuits because under the Clean Air Act it will still be obligated to address carbon dioxide. 
"They have a long way to go to finish their rollback goals," Mr. Doniger said. "And when they finish, we will see them in court." 
Scott H. Segal, a lawyer with the firm Bracewell who supports rolling back the Clean Power Plan, said replacing the rule -- presumably with one that merely directs coal plants to 
enact efficiency measures -- would allow utilities to plan ahead and would serve "as a bulwark against frivolous litigation." 
How far is Pruitt willing to go? 
Mr. Pruitt told coal industry executives in June that he wanted the E.P.A. to conduct a "red team-blue team" debate to raise questions about climate science. But there has been 

no public announcement about such an effort to date. 
That might not stop a broader inquiry into the legal underpinning of E.P.A. climate regulations, a 2009 document known as the endangerment finding. 
The endangerment finding concludes that greenhouse gas emissions pose a threat to human health and must be regulated under the Clean Air Act. As long as it stands, the 

E.P.A. will be obligated to address climate change, even without the Clean Power Plan. 
Legal experts agree that challenging the endangerment finding will be an uphill battle. But it may be one Mr. Pruitt wants to wage. In several interviews last year Mr. Pruitt cast 
doubt on the document, and he has faced pressure from his supporters to overturn it. Yet he has avoided declaring definitively whether he will do so. 
Repealing the Clean Power Plan may force Mr. Pruitt to make a decision one way or another by the end of the year. 

Keep an eye on the infrastructure bill 
With a major tax bill out of the way, Mr. Trump has said he hopes to tackle infrastructure next. That could create an opening for some of the year's biggest environmental changes. 
Mr. Bishop said he hoped any infrastructure bill would incorporate changes to the Endangered Species Act, which many conservatives argue has been used to thwart development. He also wants to overhaul a 1969 law that requires federal agencies to assess the environmental effects of their proposed actions. 
"People have realized over and over again how that bill that was supposed to be passed so there is local input is being used to stop progress," Mr. Bishop said of the law, the National Environmental Policy Act. He has previously introduced legislation that would make the endangered species law more friendly to landowners and industry. 
"If there is a big infrastructure bill we will try to put those all in a big package," Mr. Bishop said. "If not we will try to move them in pieces." 
Christy Goldfuss, who led the White House Council on Environmental Quality in the Obama administration, said she expected a bruising battle. 
"The infrastructure fight will be very much set up as a false choice between putting people to work and destroying the bedrock environmental laws," she said. Efforts to weaken rules on the construction of roads and bridges, she said, do not draw attention like debates over climate change. But she asserted that undermining fundamental environmental safeguards will do long term damage. 
"This is going to be a big fight for the environmental community," she said. 
Follow @NYTClimate on Twitter 

Photograph 
Scott Pruitt, the Environmental Protection Agency Administrator, Making a Speech to Coal Miners in Sycamore, Pa., Last Year. (Photograph by Justin Merriman/Getty Images) 
Copyright New York Times Company Jan 6, 2018 
Subject 	Regulatory agencies; 

Regulation; 
Coal-fired power plants; 
Environmental protection; 
Infrastructure; 

Emissions; 

Environmental policy; 
Endangered & extinct species; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Climate change; 
Natural resources; 

Litigation; 

Bans; 

Deregulation; 
Regulatory reform; 
Climate 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Trump, Donald J 
Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 

NAICS: 924110 


Title 	Fight Over Environmental Policy Is Just Getting Started: [National Desk] 
Author 	Friedman, Lisa 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.14 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Jan 6, 2018 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1984941884  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1984941884?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Jan 6, 2018  
Last updated  2018-01-08  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 183 of 236 


With Red Tape Losing Its Grip, Firms Ante Up: [National Desk] 
Appelbaum, Binyamin; Tankersley, Jim.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]02 Jan 2018: A.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=With+Red+Tape+Losing+Its+Grip%2C+Firms+Ante+Up%3A+%5BNational+Des 01-02&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Appelbaum%2C+Binyamin%3BTankersley%2C+Jim&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- A wave of optimism has swept over American business leaders, and it is beginning to translate into the sort of investment in new plants, equipment and factory upgrades that bolsters economic growth, spurs job creation -- and may finally raise wages significantly. 
While business leaders are eager for the tax cuts that take effect this year, the newfound confidence was initially inspired by the Trump administration's regulatory pullback, not so much because deregulation is saving companies money but because the administration has instilled a faith in business executives that new regulations are not coming. 
"It's an overall sense that you're not going to face any new regulatory fights," said Granger MacDonald, a home builder in Kerrville, Tex. "We're not spending more, which is the main thing. We're not seeing any savings, but we're not seeing any increases." 
The applause from top executives has been largely reserved for the administration's economic policy agenda. Many chief executives have been publicly critical of President Trump's approach to social and cultural issues, including his response to a white nationalist march over the summer in Charlottesville, Va., that turned deadly and his decision to withdraw from the Paris climate accord. Two of the business advisory councils that Mr. Trump assembled in the nascent days of his presidency disbanded after executives grew concerned about his public remarks on the violence in Charlottesville. 
There is little historical evidence tying regulation levels to growth. Regulatory proponents say, in fact, that those rules can have positive economic effects in the long run, saving companies from violations that could cost them both financially and reputationally. Cost-benefit analyses generally do not look just at the impact of a regulation on a particular business's bottom line in the coming months, but at the broader impact on consumers, the environment, public health and other factors that can show up over years or decades. 
But in the administration and across the business community, there is a perception that years of increased environmental, financial and other regulatory oversight by the Obama administration dampened investment and job creation -- and that Mr. Trump's more hands-off approach has unleashed the "animal spirits" of companies that had hoarded cash after the recession of 2008. 
Some businesses will essentially be able to get away with shortcuts that they could not have under a continuation of Obama-era policies. The coal industry, for instance, will not have to worry about a regulation, overturned by Congress and Mr. Trump, that would have protected streams from mining runoff. 
Brett Hartl, the government affairs director at the Center for Biological Diversity, said the Trump administration might avoid big-splash regulatory rollbacks this year and instead would make it harder for federal agencies to block business expansion. 
"It's not going to be sexy things like 'We're killing the Clean Power Plan,"' Mr. Hartl said, referring to the Obama-era rule aimed at curbing greenhouse gas emissions from coal-fired power plants. "But you can make it systematically harder for an agency to do the right thing." 
Only a handful of the federal government's reams of rules have actually been killed or slated for elimination since Mr. Trump took office. But the president has declared that rolling back regulations will be a defining theme of his presidency. On his 11th day in office, Mr. Trump signed an executive order "on reducing regulation and controlling regulatory costs," including the stipulation that any new regulation must be offset by two regulations rolled back. 
That intention and its rhetorical and regulatory follow-ons have executives at large and small companies celebrating. And with tax cuts coming and a generally improving economic outlook, both domestically and internationally, economists are revising growth forecasts upward for last year and this year. 
Even before it became clear that Republicans would pass a major tax cut, capital spending had risen significantly, climbing at an annualized rate of 6.2 percent during the first three quarters of last year. Surveys of planned spending also show increases. 
Mr. Trump bragged in a news conference last month that he has rolled back 22 regulations for every new one -- 67 deregulatory actions, versus three new regulations. Often in conjunction with the Republican Congress, his administration has canceled several rules approved at the end of the President Barack Obama's term, including a regulation on limiting mining debris in streams, a requirement that broadband providers obtain permission from customers to collect and use online information, and a ban on plastic bottles in national parks. 
Administration officials said last month that, since January 2017, federal agencies have delayed, withdrawn or made inactive nearly 1,600 planned regulatory actions. Further rollbacks will affect financial services as well as energy and labor rules, among others. 
And Mr. Trump has appointed outspoken critics of regulation to lead several federal agencies, including the Environmental Protection Agency and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. 
The evidence is weak that regulation actually reduces economic activity or that deregulation stimulates it. But business executives are largely convinced that the cost of complying with rules diverts money that could be invested elsewhere. And economists see a plausible connection between Mr. Trump's determination to prune the federal rule book and the willingness of businesses to crank open their vaults. Measures of business confidence have climbed to record heights during Mr. Trump's first year. 
"The notion that deregulation unleashes growth is virtually impossible to find in the data," said Jared Bernstein, a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities who served as the chief economic adviser to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. "What does matter is this idea that confidence matters. If their expectations about the future are positive, then it does make a difference." 
Businesses acknowledge that the most important reason for their increased optimism is the simple fact that the domestic economy continues to expand, with few clouds on the horizon. 
Better yet, the world's major economies all are growing for the first time since the financial crisis. Confidence among European manufacturers hit a high in more than a decade, according to European Commission data that goes back to 1985, even without tax cuts or less regulation. 
In Japan, now in the middle of its longest period of growth since the early 1990s, the central bank said corporate investment was exceeding its expectations, and it raised its forecast. 
"The fundamental backdrop here is that this is a global synchronized expansion lifting everyone's spirits, from Tokyo to New York," said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Analytics in West Chester, Pa. "The entire global economy is on one page for the first time in over a decade. We're all moving in sync and that has everyone feeling good, not just here but across the globe." 
The low unemployment in the United States may also be prompting increased spending, just as it did in the 1990s, as corporations invest in technology to make workers more productive, or replace them entirely. Wendy's is adding self-service kiosks at 1,000 restaurants. 
But business executives say the Trump administration deserves credit. Mr. MacDonald said home builders have benefited from the killing of regulations written by the Obama administration, including a rule that broadened the definition of wetlands, which could have restricted home building in certain areas. The National Labor Relations Board also reversed a decision that made builders more responsible for the working conditions of their contractors' employees. 
In some industries, the administration's actions will allow companies to engage in activities they might not have been able to otherwise; electric utilities, for example, might be able to invest in upgrading power plants that run on fossil fuels, thanks to a promised rollback of Mr. Obama's Clean Power Plan to fight climate change. 
The Business Roundtable, a corporate lobbying group in Washington, reported last month that "regulatory costs" were no longer the top concern of American executives, for the first time in six years. Mr. Zandi said that regulation was still the top concern in Moody's survey of business confidence, but that it was rapidly losing ground to concerns about the availability of labor. 
The National Association of Manufacturers' fourth-quarter member survey found that fewer than half of manufacturers cited an "unfavorable business climate" -- including regulations and taxes -- as a challenge to their business, down from nearly three-quarters a year ago. 
Some industries have seen particularly clear changes in fortune. The Trump administration has reversed a number of environmental protections that would have imposed significant costs on energy companies. Mr. Trump's appointees to the Federal Communications Commission voted last month to repeal so-called net neutrality rules, which treated internet services as a regulated industry, like power lines, and prohibited broadband providers from charging for faster internet service or from blocking or slowing some websites. 
That decision helped prompt Comcast to announce that it would invest more than $50 billion in infrastructure over the next five years. 
The banking industry, in particular, has been buoyed by a relaxed approach to financial regulation as the Trump administration moves to ease many of the postcrisis rules put in place to prevent another financial meltdown. The Treasury Department has issued a series of reports calling for sweeping changes to rules required under the 2010 Dodd-Frank law, and a council set up to designate firms that pose risks to the financial system is in the process of removing those companies from heightened federal oversight. 
Mr. Trump has also installed individuals who have publicly questioned the need for many of the postcrisis rules in major policy roles, including at the Federal Reserve and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Bank stocks have been on a winning streak and ended 2017 up more than 15 percent, according to the KBW Nasdaq Bank Index. 
"There has been some regulatory fixes for a lot of industries, and they would tell you that matters a lot," said Jamie Dimon, the chairman of JPMorgan Chase, who also leads the Business Roundtable. "It's just hard to do a direct correlation. It doesn't mean it isn't real." 
The confidence is translating to industries that have not, as of yet, seen any obvious benefit or policy changes. 
"We have spent the past dozen years or longer operating in environments that have had an increasing regulatory burden," said Michael S. Burke, the chairman and chief executive of Aecom, a Los Angeles-based multinational consulting firm that specializes in infrastructure projects. "That burden has slowed down economic growth, it's slowed down investment in infrastructure. And what we've seen over the last year is a big deregulatory environment." 
Mr. Burke said he expected the actions to speed future projects for his company, though he declined to offer details, citing competitive risks. 
The White House sees its efforts as having their intended effect. Mr. Trump boasted about his deregulatory efforts last month at an event where he stood in front of a small mountain of printouts representing the nation's regulatory burden and ceremonially cut a large piece of "red tape." 
The chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, Kevin Hassett, said in an interview that the administration's freeze on new regulations, in particular, appeared to have buoyed confidence. Though he cautioned that it could take years of research to pin down the magnitude of the effects, he said deregulation was "the most plausible story" to explain why economic growth in 2017 had outstripped most forecasts. 
"Our view is, the 'no new regulations' piece has to be more powerful than we thought," he said. 
Follow on Twitter: Binyamin Appelbaum at @BCAppelbaum and Jim Tankersley at @jimtankersley. 
Credit: BINYAMIN APPELBAUM and JIM TANKERSLEY; Lisa Friedman contributed reporting. 
Photograph 
President Trump Said Last Month That He Had Rolled Back 22 Regulations for Every New One. He has Appointed Critics of Regulation to Lead Several Federal Agencies. (Photograph by Doug Mills/the New York Times) (A10) 
Copyright New York Times Company Jan 2, 2018 
Subject  Government agencies; Regulation of financial institutions; Presidents; Coal-fired power plants; Infrastructure; Emission standards; Job creation; Deregulation; Tax cuts; Industrial plant emissions; Economic growth; Capital expenditures; Cost control; Capital investments; Regulatory reform; Business community  
Location  United States--US  
People  Trump, Donald J  
Title  With Red Tape Losing Its Grip, Firms Ante Up: [National Desk]  
Author  Appelbaum, Binyamin; Tankersley, Jim  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.1  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Jan 2, 2018  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1983187311  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1983187311?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Jan 2, 2018  
Last updated  2018-01-02  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 184 of 236 



The Year In... National: [SpecialSections] 
New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]31 Dec 2017: F.18. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=The+Year+In...+National%3A+%5BSpecialSections%5D&title=New+York+Times 12-31&volume=&issue=&spage=F.18&au=&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Flint Holds a Glittering Prom, Far From Flint. For students at Flint Northwestern High School, this year's prom was a chance to set aside anxieties about Flint's three-year-old 
water crisis, its poverty and its gun violence. June 16 A Path to America, Marked by More and More Bodies. Over 16 years, the Border Patrol documented 6,023 deaths in the four states bordering Mexico, more than from the Sept. 11 attacks and Hurricane Katrina combined. May 4 
Climate Science Meets a Stubborn Obstacle: Students. A new teacher's efforts to educate teenagers in Ohio coal country ran up against a cultural resistance to evidence of the 
human role in global warming. June 4 He Became a Hate Crime Victim. She Became a Widow. Srinivas Kuchibhotla's death in an anti-immigrant attack at a Kansas bar made headlines the world over. Now his wife, Sunayana Dumala, tells her story. July 8 
A Broader Sweep. A day in the field with immigration enforcers in California, a state hostile to President Trump's efforts to step up deportations. July 21 At an Arkansas Mosque, a Vandal Spreads Hate and Finds Mercy. Abraham never fit in. Hisham finally felt at home. Then their worlds collided in western Arkansas. Aug. 26 As Overdose Deaths Pile Up, a Medical Examiner Quits the Morgue. "It has completely overwhelmed us," Dr. Thomas A. Andrew said of the opioid crisis. His new ambition: 
minister to the living about the dangers of drugs. Oct 7 
Alone on the Open Road: Truckers Feel Like 'Throwaway People.' President Trump ignited a national discussion of blue-collar jobs. Truck driving, once a road to the middle class, 
is now low-paying, grinding, unhealthy work. We talked with drivers about why they do it. May 22 
Marine Attacked an Iraqi Restaurant. But Was It a Hate Crime or PTSD? After a Marine attacked an Iraqi restaurant in Portland, Ore., his family said he was provoked by trauma, 

not hate, and that he needed help, not jail time. Oct. 18 

Becoming a Steelworker Liberated Her. Then Her Job Moved to Mexico. Workers like Shannon Mulcahy took pride in their jobs at the Rexnord factory in Indianapolis. The 
bearings they made were top-notch. In the end, it didn't matter. Oct. 14 
'You're a Quadriplegic': A Las Vegas Victim Faces a Hard Reality Kim Gervais and two friends went to hear country music. Then the gunfire began. She was gravely injured, one 

of her friends died and one survived. Oct. 28 


Photograph 
(Photograph by George Etheredge for the New York Times) Copyright New York Times Company Dec 31, 2017 
Subject 	Hate crimes; 
Victims of crime; 
Border patrol 


Title 	The Year In... National: [SpecialSections] 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	F.18 
Publication year 	2017 
Publication date  Dec 31, 2017  
Section  F  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1982543029  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1982543029?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Dec 31, 2017  
Last updated  2017-12-31  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 185 of 236 


How Americans Think About Climate Change: [SpecialSections] 
Popovich, Nadja; Schwartz, John; Schlossberg, Tatiana.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]31 Dec 2017: F.13. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=How+Americans+Think+About+Climate+Change%3A+%5BSpecialSections%5D& 12­31&volume=&issue=&spage=F.13&au=Popovich%2C+Nadja%3BSchwartz%2C+John%3BSchlossberg%2C+Tatiana&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
New data from Yale researchers shows that Americans overwhelmingly believe that global warming is happening, and that carbon emissions should be scaled back. > In every congressional district, a majority of adults supports limiting carbon dioxide emissions from existing coal- fired power plants. But many Republicans in Congress (and 
some Democrats) agree with President Trump, who this week may move to kill an Obama administration plan that would have scaled back the nation's greenhouse gas 
emissions. 
Nationally, about seven in 10 Americans support regulating carbon pollution from coal-fired power plants -- and 75 percent support regulating CO2 as a pollutant more 
generally. But lawmakers are unlikely to change direction soon. 

Bob Inglis, a former Republican congressman from South Carolina, warned that committed activists -- like the Tea Party -- can shape politicians' approaches to issues like climate change. "Those are the ones who can take you out at the next primary," he said. Mr. Inglis lost his primary in 2010 to Trey Gowdy, a Tea Party candidate who attacked his climate views. 
> Most people know climate change is happening, and a majority agrees it is harming people in the United States. But most don't believe it will harm them. Global warming is precisely the kind of threat humans are awful at dealing with: a problem with enormous consequences over the long term, but little that is sharply visible on a 
personal level in the short term. Humans are hard-wired for quick fight-or-flight reactions in the face of an imminent threat, but not highly motivated to act against slow-moving and somewhat abstract problems, even if the challenges that they pose are ultimately dire. 
> 
The effects of climate change, including sunny-day flooding, are being felt across Florida. But the state shows a distinct north-south split in the level of concern over global 
warming, and it is not a simple Democrat-versus- Republican distinction, said State Representative Kristin D. Jacobs, a Democrat. Four southeast Florida counties stand out 
because of their concerted effort to work on climate issues together and to discuss it in nonpartisan terms. 

South and West Texas, as well as the state's Gulf Coast, are more worried about climate change than the rest of the state -- and politics alone cannot explain it. 

One thing is shared by those disparate parts of the state: They have felt the brunt of shifting weather patterns, including rising temperatures, coastal hurricanes and western 
droughts so long and severe that some West Texas towns now recycle wastewater for drinking. 
> 
Thirty-three percent of Americans surveyed said they discuss global warming at least occasionally with friends and family -- and 31 percent said they never do. But there are 

distinct regional patterns. 

In the West, much of which has been affected by drought and wildfires, residents are more likely to talk about climate change. New England states talk more about the climate, 
as well, along with coastal South Carolina, which lies in a path many hurricanes have taken. 
But aside from Southeast Florida, which has put so much effort into making discussion of climate change a priority, much of the rest of the Atlantic Coast is less likely to engage 

in climate discussions, despite recent increases in tidal flooding. 
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 

Map 
Americans Want to Restrict Carbon Emissions From Coal Power Plants. The White House and Congress May Do the Opposite.; Most People Think That Climate Change Will Harm Americans, but They Don't Think It Will Happen to Them.; Texas and Florida Are Vulnerable to Climate Change, but Residents Are Split On How Much to Worry About It.; Everybody Talks About the Weather. But the Climate? Only in Some Places. (Source: Yale Program On Climate Change Communication) 
Copyright New York Times Company Dec 31, 2017 
Subject  Global warming;  
Coal-fired power plants;  
Emissions;  
Carbon;  
Industrial plant emissions;  
Climate change;  
Coasts  
Title  How Americans Think About Climate Change: [SpecialSections]  
Author  Popovich, Nadja; Schwartz, John; Schlossberg, Tatiana  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  F.13  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Dec 31, 2017  
Section  F  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1982542529  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1982542529?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Dec 31, 2017  
Last updated  2017-12-31  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 186 of 236 


An Ultimatum for Jakarta: Redevelop or Drown: [News; Series] 
Kimmelman, Michael.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]22 Dec 2017: A.1. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=An+Ultimatum+for+Jakarta%3A+Redevelop+or+Drown%3A+%5BNews%3B+Se 12-22&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Kimmelman%2C+Michael&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
JAKARTA, Indonesia -- Rasdiono remembers when the sea was a good distance from his doorstep, down a hill. Back then he opened the cramped, gaily painted bayside shack he named the Blessed Bodega, where he and his family sell catfish heads, spiced eggs and fried chicken. 
It was strange, Rasdiono said. Year by year, the water crept closer. The hill gradually disappeared. Now the sea loomed high over the shop, just steps away, held back only by a leaky wall. 
With climate change, the Java Sea is rising and weather here is becoming more extreme. Just this month a freakish storm briefly turned Jakarta's streets into rivers and brought this vast area of nearly 30 million residents to a virtual halt. 
One local climate researcher, Irvan Pulungan, an adviser to the city's governor, fears that temperatures may rise several degrees Fahrenheit, and the sea level as much as three feet in the region, over the coming century. 
That, alone, spells potential disaster for this teeming metropolis. 
But global warming turned out not to be the only culprit behind the historic floods that overran Rasdiono's bodega and much of the rest of Jakarta in 2007. The problem, it turned out, was that the city itself is sinking. 
In fact, Jakarta is sinking faster than any other big city on the planet, faster, even, than climate change is causing the sea to rise -- so surreally fast that rivers sometimes flow upstream, ordinary rains regularly swamp neighborhoods and buildings slowly disappear underground, swallowed by the earth. The main cause: Jakartans are digging illegal wells, drip by drip draining the underground aquifers on which the city rests -- like deflating a giant cushion underneath it. About 40 percent of Jakarta now lies below sea level. 
Coastal districts, like Muara Baru, near the Blessed Bodega, have sunk as much as 14 feet in recent years. Not long ago I drove around northern Jakarta and saw teenagers fishing in the abandoned shell of a half-submerged factory. The banks of a murky canal lapped at the trestle of a railway bridge, which, until recently, had arched high over it. 
Climate change acts here as it does elsewhere, exacerbating scores of other ills. And in Jakarta's case, a tsunami of human-made troubles -- runaway development, a near-total lack of planning, next to no sewers and only a limited network of reliable, piped-in drinking water -- poses an imminent threat to the city's survival. 
Sinking buildings, sprawl, polluted air and some of the worst traffic jams in the world are symptoms of other deeply rooted troubles. Distrust of government is a national condition. Conflicts between Islamic extremists and secular Indonesians, Muslims and ethnic Chinese have blocked progress, helped bring down reform-minded leaders and complicated everything that happens here, or doesn't happen, to stop the city from sinking. 
"Nobody here believes in the greater good, because there is so much corruption, so much posturing about serving the public when what gets done only serves private interests," as Sidney Jones, the director of the local Institute for Policy Analysis of Conflict, put it. "There is no trust." 
Hydrologists say the city has only a decade to halt its sinking. If it can't, northern Jakarta, with its millions of residents, will end up underwater, along with much of the nation's economy. Eventually, barring wholesale change and an infrastructural revolution, Jakarta won't be able to build walls high enough to hold back the rivers, canals and the rising Java Sea. 
And even then, of course, if it does manage to heal its self-inflicted wounds, it still has to cope with all the mounting threats from climate change. 
How It Got So Bad 
As far the eye can see, 21st-century Jakarta is a smoggy tangle of freeways and skyscrapers. Spread along the northwestern coast of Java, this capital of the nation with the world's largest Muslim population used to be a soggy, bug-infested trading port for the Hindu kingdom of Sunda before local sultans took it over in 1527. 
They named it Jayakarta, Javanese for victorious city. 
Dutch colonists arrived a century later, establishing a base for the East India territories. Imagining a tropical Amsterdam, they laid out streets and canals to try to cope with water pouring in from the south, out of the forests and mountains, where rain falls nearly 300 days out of the year. Thirteen rivers feed into the city. 
After independence in 1945, the city began to sprawl. Today, it is virtually impossible to walk around. Parks are rarer than Javan rhinos. A trip to the nearest botanical garden requires the better part of a day in bumper-to-bumper traffic. 
"Living here, we don't have other places to go," said Yudi and Titi, a young professional couple who one recent Sunday had made the roughly hour's round trip from western Jakarta to the center of the city just to spend a few minutes walking up and down a chaotic, multilane freeway briefly closed to traffic. "Without cars, at least you can breathe for a few minutes," Titi said. 
The most urgent problems are in North Jakarta, a coastal mash-up of ports, nautically themed high-rises, aged fish markets, abject slums, power plants, giant air-conditioned 
malls and the congested remnants of the colonial Dutch settlement, with its decrepit squares and streets of crumbling warehouses and dusty museums. 
Some of the world's most polluted canals and rivers weave a spider's web through the area. 
It is where the city is sinking fastest. 

That's because, after decades of reckless growth and negligent leadership, crises have lined up here like dominoes. 
Jakartan developers and others illegally dig untold numbers of wells because water is piped to less than half the population at what published reports say are extortionate costs 
by private companies awarded government concessions. 

The aquifers aren't being replenished, despite heavy rains and the abundance of rivers, because more than 97 percent of Jakarta is now smothered by concrete and asphalt. 
Open fields that once absorbed rain have been paved over. Shores of mangroves that used to help relieve swollen rivers and canals during monsoons have been overtaken by 
shantytowns and apartment towers. 

There is always tension between immediate needs and long-term plans. It's a similar story in other sinking giants like Mexico City. Here, all of the construction, combined with 

the draining of the aquifers, is causing the rock and sediment on which Jakarta rests to pancake. 
Construction has skyrocketed as businesses and foreigners have arrived, and also because rural Indonesians have been fleeing the lowlands of Sumatra and Kalimantan, the 
Indonesian part of Borneo. They have been driven out by coal mines and tobacco farms. The effect on the countryside has been disastrous, with the burning of rain forests to 
make way for palm oil producers and textile factories causing fires so smoky they have caused air pollution to spike as far away as Malaysia, contributing to climate change. 

These factories also dump tons of waste and chemicals into waterways, contaminating the city's drinking water supply. 

And many of the rural poor have settled in Jakarta in informal developments, or kampungs, that cluster along canals, their houses teetering above the water on stilts, the 
waterways underneath becoming default sewers. 
All of these homes, all of this sewage and garbage now jam pumping stations that the city has had to build because gravity no longer drains the rivers and canals naturally. 
To halt the sinking, the city needs to stop the digging of wells, which means Jakarta must provide residents with reliable, clean, piped-in water and, to clear the waterways, 

somehow -- at a cost of untold billions -- retrofit one of the world's biggest cities with a sewer system, or something approaching it. 

Cleaning the canals and rivers will also require policing the factories that dump chemicals, which means grappling with corruption -- and resettling many of the informal 
communities. But resettlement depends on finding land and then building thousands of new homes for displaced residents, most of whom don't want to move in the first place. 
A Difficult Solution: Evictions 
One afternoon I met a man named Topaz in the ruins of an evicted waterfront kampung named Akuarium. A soft-spoken 31-year-old events organizer, Topaz described himself 

as a third-generation resident of what used to be a thriving informal neighborhood with four-story buildings and bustling streets filled with shops. 
That was before the bulldozers arrived. The Akuarium I found had been reduced to mounds of broken masonry and concrete. 
"The government said the eviction was about cleaning the river, but I believe it was about politics and development," Topaz told me, reflecting a belief widely held among 

residents. He showed me around the tattered, windswept tent he shares with a dozen other squatters not far from where his family home used to be. Over his shoulder, several 

luxury waterfront apartment towers were under construction. "I saw promotions for those towers that showed Akuarium turned into a park," Topaz said. 
Jakarta's former governor, Basuki Tjahaja Purnama, known as Ahok, ordered the eviction. He is ethnic Chinese, a geological engineer by training. As governor, he tackled 
several of Jakarta's big problems, or tried to. He tried, but failed, to wrest control of the water supply from the private companies. He assembled a sanitation crew, called the 
Orange Army, to remove sediment and garbage from rivers and canals. 

And he cleared out some of the kampungs that obstructed waterways. The efforts began to make a difference. Rains that once caused days of floods drained within hours. 

But many people forced out, like Topaz, resisted the moves, convinced that the evictions were really intended to enrich developers, not improve drainage. Akuarium became a 
hotbed of protest against the governor. 
Capitalizing on residents' resistance and the piety of the urban poor, the hard-line Islamic Defenders Front teamed with some of the governor's political rivals and religious 

conservatives to tap into a vein of anti-Chinese populism. Ahok's enemies escalated what had been a conflict over the displacement of a fishing community into an argument 

about whether a non-Muslim should lead a Muslim-majority city. 
The governor found himself regularly attacked at Friday prayers. He lost his re-election bid, and the Islamists, who exploited anger against him, had him brought up on charges 
of blasphemy. He is serving two years in prison. 

The new governor of Jakarta, Anies Baswedan, who ran a campaign that drew support from Akuarium's angry residents, announced in November as one of his first acts that he 

planned to rebuild some of the shelters at the kampung. 
At another evicted settlement called Bukit Duri, I met Agus Fadilah, 34, a motorbike-taxi driver, gazing at the rubble of what used to be his house on the banks of the Ciliwung, 
one of the city's main rivers. Bulldozers were still moving piles of debris, and a few women were scavenging for family belongings. 

Upstream, several other kampungs had already been cleared, the river widened, its banks lined with concrete and surrounded by high concrete walls, now tagged with graffiti. 

The river there looks imprisoned, but water flows more easily. 
"I was raised here, my job was here," Mr. Agus said, noting that he, his wife and two young children had been relocated to a new apartment building hours away. They make 
long daily commutes because they want to keep the children in their old schools. 

"I know why they did this," he told me. "It had to do with the river. I know this was not legally our land. But it was my home." 
Residents of Bukit Duri filed a class-action lawsuit against the government to protest the evictions. Recently, a district court judge ruled in their favor. 

"It's not that nobody should move," argues Elisa Sutanudjaja, a kampung advocate and the executive director at the Rujak Center for Urban Studies. "These poor communities don't all want to stay in place, but they do want to stay together and near their jobs, and they want legal status. 
"Mostly, they want to be consulted," she said. 
They also want to show, where possible, that moving isn't the only solution. In a leafy kampung called Tongkol, residents during the last couple of years have installed their own septic tanks and kept their stretch of the Ciliwung clean. A young architect named Kamil Muhammad, from Architecture Sans Frontieres-Indonesia, designed a low-cost home made of concrete, bamboo and reused brick. It stacks seven tiny apartments under a covered communal roof deck. 
The project is a template for cheap, do-it-yourself housing that can free up space along Jakarta's waterways critical for flood control. 
"We want to demonstrate to the government that kampungs can actually be beneficial to the river," Kamil told me as we looked over the river from the roof deck. Below, banana and star fruit trees shaded a riverside promenade of colorful facades and vegetable gardens. 
JanJaap Brinkman, a hydrologist who for decades has been studying Jakarta for the Dutch water research institute Deltares, sympathizes with residents of communities like Akuarium and Tongkol. Eviction isn't a cure-all, or even possible, he said, considering how many countless thousands of Jakartans now live atop the canals and rivers in informal developments. At the same time, Mr. Brinkman stressed, moving people is necessary, and bungled evictions squander a meager reservoir of good will and precious time. 
"We need big steps now," he said. "If all the discussions get tied up with fishermen and development, there will eventually be a massive calamity and deaths and no choice but to give up on whole parts of Jakarta." 
Halting Progress 
There is occasional talk here about the Indonesian government moving its capital elsewhere, to shrink the city. Politicians issue decrees prohibiting developers from digging wells and imploring residents to store rainwater. Enforcement is negligible. 
Mr. Brinkman drove me one morning to the city's new 16-mile Eastern Flood Channel, its banks lined with parkland. The channel has helped relieve flooding. From there we toured a century-old water gate, also recently repaired. "A few years ago this was solid waste," Mr. Brinkman said, gesturing across the wide, murky water. On the opposite bank, sanitation crews in bright orange outfits gathered around garbage trucks. They belonged to Ahok's Orange Army. 
"This gate is nothing like it used to be," Mr. Brinkman said. "You used to be able to walk across the water, it was so clogged with garbage and sediment." 
As he spoke, one of the orange-clad sanitation workers leaned his head back, polished off a bottle of water and tossed the empty plastic container over one shoulder into the river. 
Real progress is often thwarted here. The most ambitious move by the city is the construction of what's called the Coastal Wall, now rising like a black cliff from Jakarta Bay. It's a quasi-temporary barrier to hold back the rising sea and compensate for subsidence -- built extra high because, like the rest of North Jakarta, it is expected to sink, too. With subsidence at the current rate, the Coastal Wall itself may be underwater by 2030. 
Even more alarming, Mr. Brinkman showed me one spot along the waterfront where the wall ends and all that holds back the sea is a low, crumbling concrete rampart. The water was only a couple of feet below the top when we peered over the embankment. 
"If this wall breaks, there's simply no holding back the Java Sea," said Mr. Brinkman, gesturing from the rampart toward the city. "Jakarta will flood all the way to the center of town, six kilometers from here. I could take you to 20 other places just like this." 
The Coastal Wall belongs to a larger project that Indonesian officials undertook three years ago in collaboration with the Dutch government. Called the National Capital Integrated Coastal Development program, it imagines supplementing the Coastal Wall with a second barrier, a Giant Sea Wall, or massive dike, miles out to sea, in effect closing off Jakarta Bay entirely. 
The dike would not just block rising waters. According to the original plan, it would also become the spine for an immense new megadistrict and ring road, a $40 billion development -- and a windfall for real estate moguls and Dutch consultants -- designed in the shape of a garuda, the national bird. 
The Great Garuda, as it came to be called, was Jakarta's Big Idea. 
Or it was until just lately. 
The government has now backtracked on the megadistrict idea, while still envisioning the dike itself -- the very notion of which has provoked understandable skepticism. As environmentalists have pointed out, if the city doesn't first clean up its rivers and canals, a dike will turn an enclosed Jakarta Bay into the world's largest cesspool. 
The development scheme was also linked to discredited plans for reclaimed islands inside the bay. Delayed for years by recession and legal wrangling, the islands started to get built in 2013, marketed as posh oases of condominiums, yacht marinas and golf courses primarily to customers in places like Malaysia and Singapore. 
Enraged fishermen sued, claiming that the islands destroyed their traditional fishing grounds. When one developer was exposed for bribing local officials, a scandal erupted and construction was halted. 
At the same time, the islands had become tied up with the Great Garuda. Officials, including Ahok, realized that a tax on the islands' developers could help Indonesia pay for the giant dike, along with other costly initiatives to clear waterways and stop the sinking. 
In essence, a plan that environmentalists and many poor fishermen agreed would wreak environmental havoc on the bay and North Jakarta was being touted by Jakartan leadership as a means to save the city itself -- and from climate change. 
Ardhasena Sopalheluwakan is among the climate scientists here who think the best approach was never to construct a giant dike but "to give back part of North Jakarta to nature," as he put it to me one recent morning. The idea would be to "reintroduce mangroves and rejuvenate some of the dozens of reservoirs that were actually part of old Jakarta." 
From Mr. Brinkman's perspective, just "counteracting subsidence will account for 90 percent of what this city needs to do to deal with climate change." 
Tokyo was in a similar predicament after World War II, he likes to point out. It had sunk about 12 feet since 1900. But the city poured resources into new infrastructure and established stricter rules about development, and within a decade or two made itself a global model of urban innovation, better able to cope with the effects of climate change. 
"Jakarta could become a 21st-century version of Tokyo in the 20th century, an example for urban redevelopment," Irvan Pulungan, the climate change adviser to the city's new governor, imagined. 
But "a city that can't deliver basic services is a failed city," he added. "On top of conventional issues like flooding and urbanization we now have climate change, tipping the scale. And at this rate, people will be fighting in the streets for increasingly limited resources like clean water and safe living spaces." 
Like Tokyo half a century ago, Jakarta is at a turning point, he said: "Nature will no longer wait." 

AuthorAffiliation 
MICHAEL KIMMELMAN Follow Michael Kimmelman on Twitter @kimmelman and on Facebook. 
Credit: MICHAEL KIMMELMAN; Restidia Putri contributed research. 

Photograph 
Fishing Outside a Flooded Mosque in Jakarta, a City Sinking Faster Than Any Other Big City On the Planet -- Faster, Even, Than Climate Change Is Causing the Sea to Rise. (A1); in Jakarta, Runaway de- Velopment, Lax Planning and Poor Infrastructure Pose an Imminent Threat to the City's Survival. Clockwise From Top Left, a Flooded Factory in North Jakarta, an Area with Some of the World's Most Polluted Canals and Rivers; Fortifying a Sea Wall; Dredging Along the Karang River; Workers Repairing a Sea Wall That Failed. (Photographs by Josh Haner/the New York Times) (A10-A11) Maps: Jakarta Is Sinking (A10) 
Copyright New York Times Company Dec 22, 2017 
Subject 	Construction; 
Canals; 
Floods; 

Traffic congestion; 

Climate change; 
Aquifers; 

Sea level; 

Global warming; 
Heat; 
Economic conditions; 

Redevelopment 


Location 	Java Sea; Jakarta Indonesia; Indonesia 
Title 	An Ultimatum for Jakarta: Redevelop or Drown: [News; Series] 
Author 	Kimmelman, Michael 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.1 
Publication year 	2017 
Publication date 	Dec 22, 2017 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	General Interest Periodicals--United States 
ISSN 	03624331 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	News 
ProQuest document ID 	1979423526 
Document URL 	https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1979423526?accountid=14902 
Copyright 	Copyright New York Times Company Dec 22, 2017 Last updated 2018-02-02 
Database Global Newsstream 
document 187 of 236 


China Plans Huge Market for Trading Pollution Credits: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Bradsher, Keith; Friedman, Lisa.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]20 Dec 2017: B.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=China+Plans+Huge+Market+for+Trading+Pollution+Credits%3A+%5BBusiness% 12-20&volume=&issue=&spage=B.1&au=Bradsher%2C+Keith%3BFriedman%2C+Lisa&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
SHANGHAI -- China is the world's No. 1 polluter. It burns more coal than the rest of the world combined. It produces more than a quarter of the world's human-caused global warming gases, nearly as much as North America and Europe put together. 
On Tuesday, the country set out to claim another title reflecting its ambitions to change all that: keeper of the world's largest financial market devoted to cleaning up the air. 
China released plans on Tuesday to start a giant market to trade credits for the right to emit planet-warming greenhouse gases. The nationwide market would initially cover China's vast, state-dominated power generation sector, which produced almost half of the country's emissions from the burning of fossil fuels last year. If it works as intended, an emissions market will give Chinese power companies a financial incentive to operate more cleanly. 
The long-awaited announcement could bolster global efforts to combat climate change after President Trump signaled this year that the United States would back away from Obama-era promises to curb emissions. It could also serve as a big -- though ultimately government-controlled -- laboratory for such carbon markets, after earlier efforts in Europe and at the local level in China stumbled. 
"China's move to create the world's largest carbon market is yet another powerful sign that a global sustainability revolution is underway," Al Gore, the former vice president and a prominent voice on the environment, said in a statement. 
The government did not issue a hard timeline, and regulations and other details still have to be worked out. But environmental groups that worked with the government said they could emerge in the next couple of years. "Everything is gradual, step by step," said Li Junfeng, a senior government adviser on the carbon market plan. 
China's announcement could also disappoint those who were hoping the long-promised emissions market would cover the country's broader economy, the world's second largest after that of the United States. China's booming car culture, its industrializing agriculture sector and its huge chemical complexes, cement factories and steel mills are also big emitters. 
Still, environmental groups welcomed the move. Nathaniel Keohane, vice president for global climate at the Environmental Defense Fund, said the market for power-sector emissions alone would cover 3.3 billion tons of annual carbon dioxide releases. The European Union's trading system encompasses about two billion tons of emissions. 
"This is like the Mount Everest of climate policy," Mr. Keohane said. "It's an incredibly ambitious undertaking." 
China is reacting to pressure at home and abroad to clean up its act. Rising sea levels could devastate its heavily populated coast. The Chinese public is increasingly worried about broader environmental issues like urban smog, water quality and soil pollution. 
China has invested heavily in green technologies such as electric cars, wind turbines and solar panels. 
China's emissions of greenhouse gases from the burning of fossil fuels like oil, coal and natural gas have nearly tripled since 2000, according to data from the International Energy Agency in Paris. The high tonnage partly reflects its huge population; Chinese emissions per person are still somewhat less than the average per capita figure in the United States, although the gap has been narrowing. 
Under emission markets, power companies and others effectively pay for the right to pollute beyond a government-mandated limit. Those that cut their emissions could sell permits to pollute to dirtier companies, ideally at a healthy price. 
So far, such efforts have been underwhelming. Markets in Europe and at the provincial level in China have faltered because the authorities issued too many credits to existing polluters. That gave companies little reason to buy credits, or to cut their own emissions and sell the credits. 
Zou Ji, the president of the China arm of the Energy Foundation, one of several Western nonprofit groups that advised the government on the new market, said that China was likely to issue many credits starting early next year in response to domestic political pressures, and then gradually tighten annual allocations to force up the price. 
Beijing officials had been signaling for many months that the country would move beyond its existing experimental markets for emissions rights in five cities and two provinces. These provincial programs cover a variety of sectors, including electricity generation, steel mills, cement factories, chemical complexes and other energy-intensive industries. But the trading volume has been very low, with just $400 million in credits traded on all the exchanges combined in the first four years through last June, according to monitoring funded by the World Bank. 
The national market could face its own political interference that could hurt its chances of becoming a model for others. Electricity generation in China from coal and natural gas is dominated by five giant, state-controlled companies. A sixth runs the civilian nuclear power sector. Regardless of effectiveness or economics, the companies will probably do what Beijing wants them to do. 
Beijing's efforts also sometimes go awry. Just in the past few weeks, China has had to retreat temporarily from an ambitious plan to cut coal use in some parts of the country and rely more on natural gas, which produces fewer emissions. 
"I don't take the carbon market seriously," said Derek Scissors, an economist who specializes in China with the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative think tank. "The first thing I would ask people is, 'What markets in China do you think work really well?' " 
The national emissions trading system being started will initially cover power companies that emit at least 26,000 tons a year of carbon -- the equivalent of burning 10,000 tons of coal a year, and a threshold high enough to cover mainly larger users of coal and natural gas. Experimental markets in the seven original provinces and cities, which further cities and provinces are starting to replicate, will continue to cover the cement and steel industries as well as other manufacturing and industrial sectors. The goal is to eventually move them into the national market. 
Beijing already regulates emissions from China's electricity sector. On the other hand, having them trade with each other might help the central government figure out more rules to regulate trading in less regulated sectors, and also to identify which companies are the most efficient at reducing emissions. 
The announcement comes as the United States under Mr. Trump prepares to eliminate an Obama-era plan for reducing America's emissions. The United States has also removed climate change from its new national security strategy and has vowed to abandon the Paris agreement, under which nearly 200 nations pledged to curb greenhouse gases voluntarily and help poor countries cope with the consequences of climate change. 
Asserting that the world's two largest economies must act together, the United States and China in 2014 jointly announced their emissions targets as part of the Paris agreement. China has previously promised that its carbon dioxide emissions would peak by 2030, and that it would increase its share of non-fossil fuels in its primary energy consumption to about 20 percent by that year. 
Kelly Sims Gallagher, a professor of environmental policy at Tufts University, said the Chinese government was right to be cautious by starting with just the electricity sector. Taking a good inventory of emissions, ensuring the cap is set at a level that will actually spur a reduction in carbon dioxide and sorting out emissions allocations are all complex tasks that take time, she said. 
"It's important to realize you can't do that overnight," Ms. Gallagher said. 
AuthorAffiliation 
KEITH BRADSHER and LISA FRIEDMAN Follow Keith Bradsher and Lisa Friedman on Twitter: @KeithBradsher and @LFFriedman. 
Credit: KEITH BRADSHER and LISA FRIEDMAN; Keith Bradsher reported from Shanghai, and Lisa Friedman from Washington. Owen Guo contributed research from Beijing. 

Photograph 
Pollution in Shanghai. China Is Reacting to Pressure at Home and Abroad to Make Environmental Changes. (Photograph by Johannes Eisele/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) (B1); Making Solar Panels in Hefei, China. The Country has Invested Heavily in Green Technologies Like Solar and Wind Power. (Photograph by Adam Dean for the New York Times) (B2) 
Copyright New York Times Company Dec 20, 2017 
Subject 	Greenhouse gases; 
Fossil fuels; 
Power; 

Emissions; 

Electricity generation; 

Carbon dioxide; 
Presidents; 
Paris Agreement; 

Environmental policy; 
Greenhouse effect; 
Climate change; 
Coal; 
Pollution; 

Natural gas; 
Emissions trading; 

Global warming; 
Pollution control 


Location 	United States--US; North America; China; Europe 
People 	Gore, Albert Jr 
Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Defense Fund 

NAICS: 541720, 813312 


Title  China Plans Huge Market for Trading Pollution Credits: [Business/Financial Desk]  
Author  Bradsher, Keith; Friedman, Lisa  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.1  

Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Dec 20, 2017  
Section  B  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1978550891  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1978550891?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Dec 20, 2017  
Last updated  2017-12-20  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 188 of 236 



Divesting From Fossil Fuels: Commentary 
McKIBBEN, BILL.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]18 Dec 2017: A.21. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Divesting+From+Fossil+Fuels%3A+Commentary&title=New+York+Times&iss 12-18&volume=&issue=&spage=A.21&au=McKIBBEN%2C+BILL&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
It's hard to be optimistic about climate action, not in a week when federal scientists reported that "the Arctic shows no sign of returning" to the "reliably frozen region of recent past decades." Not in a month when California's wildfires show every sign of burning straight through Christmas. And not in a moment when the federal government keeps scrubbing basic climate information from its websites. 
But something big is starting to shift. After years of effort from activists, there are signs that the world's financial community is finally rousing itself in the fight against global warming. A foretaste came last month when Norway's sovereign wealth fund -- the world's biggest -- said that it is considering divestment from holdings in fossil fuel companies. 
The Norwegians are far from the first to consider such a move (investors controlling more than $5 trillion in assets have committed to dropping all or some of their fossil fuels stocks) but they are the biggest. And since their fund had been built on the revenues from North Sea oil it was especially significant. It was as if they were preparing to cash in their chips from the hydrocarbon casino and heading out to look for a new game. 
Then, in short order this week: 
The European insurance giant Axa announced it would divest itself of more than $825 million in investments in oil production and pipelines in the tar sands of Canada for both ethical and business reasons. The planet could see temperature increases as high as four degrees Celsius (7.2 degrees Fahrenheit), noted Thomas Buberl, the company's chief executive, a development he called "not sustainable and therefore also not insurable." He added, "As the father of two children, I really want to do the most I can with the company I am leading" to slow the rate of planetary destruction. 
Exxon Mobil threw in the towel and said it would begin performing assessments of how climate policy will affect its various ventures, after about 62 percent of its shareholders voted in May to demand such action. This capitulation to activist investors will make it ever harder to justify a business model of burning more carbon, and the idea is spreading: The governor of the Bank of England, Mark Carney, said this week that 237 companies with a market capitalization of more than $6 trillion, including 20 major global banks, were now backing climate-related disclosure schemes. 
And most important, the World Bank on Tuesday said it would by 2019 end all financial support for oil and gas exploration (it had earlier made the same pledge about coal) because of the simple facts of a "rapidly changing world." "It's hard to overstate the significance" of the World Bank's decision, Stephen Kretzmann, a veteran campaigner with the group Oil Change International, told The Guardian, adding, "It is time for all of the institutions, countries, investors and individuals who are still in the Paris agreement to stop funding fossils." 
Such a total ban won't happen all at once, of course. Western finance remains enmeshed with the fossil fuel industry -- environmental groups are mounting a last-ditch effort this week, for instance, to persuade several big banks to stop financing the Keystone XL pipeline by reminding them that top climate scientists say that the pipeline represents a deep and direct threat to our climate future. 
Banks tell themselves this is "business as usual," and indeed for a very long time lending to the gas and oil industry was normal and routine. But on a planet with a melted Arctic and a burning California, it's become the single most dangerous and reckless way to deploy money. 
Sometimes it takes years of hard work for this kind of activism to pay off. Mr. Kretzmann and his colleagues at Oil Change International have been working on World Bank financing for a decade. Indigenous campaigners in Canada have been attacking the financial roots of the tar sands for at least as long. The nonstop divestment campaigning of recent years has built enormous political pressure for change. And according to one recent study, divestment announcements may have caused at least short-term damage to the share prices of fossil fuel companies. 
That pressure will continue. Groups like Mazaska Talks are running large consumer campaigns trying to force banks to recognize their responsibility or face boycotts. 
Divestment is becoming an increasingly important force in local politics: New York City's public advocate, Letitia James, last week called on the city's pension funds to divest from fossil fuels before more climate damage is done. City treasuries have begun to pull billions from banks like Wells Fargo that underwrite projects like the Dakota Access pipeline. 
It's true that no environmental action is possible in Donald Trump's Washington. It's also true that congresses and parliaments are not the only halls of power. Finance, not politics, may turn out to be the soft underbelly of the climate monster. 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 
AuthorAffiliation 
BILL McKIBBEN Bill McKibben, a founder of 350.org who teaches environmental studies at Middlebury College, is the author, most recently, of "Radio Free Vermont: A Fable of Resistance." 
Copyright New York Times Company Dec 18, 2017 
Subject  Petroleum production; Fossil fuels; Divestments; Environmental policy; Pipelines; Shareholder activism  
Location  Arctic region; North Sea; Canada; California; Norway; United States--US  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Middlebury College 611310;  
Name: NAICS:  International Bank for Reconstruction & Development--World Bank 928120;  
Name: NAICS:  Oil Change International 813312;  
Name: NAICS:  Exxon Mobil Corp 211111, 447110  
Title  Divesting From Fossil Fuels: Commentary  
Author  McKIBBEN, BILL  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.21  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Dec 18, 2017  
column  Op-Ed Contributor  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1977724615  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1977724615?accountid=14902  

Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Dec 18, 2017  
Last updated  2017-12-18  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 189 of 236 


'Most Far-Reaching' Rollback of Rules: [National Desk] 
Lipton, Eric; Ivory, Danielle.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]15 Dec 2017: A.16. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=%27Most+Far­Reaching%27+Rollback+of+Rules%3A+%5BNational+Desk%5D&title=New+York+Times&issn=03624331&date=2017-12­15&volume=&issue=&spage=A.16&au=Lipton%2C+Eric%3BIvory%2C+Danielle&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- President Trump said on Thursday that his administration was answering "a call to action" by rolling back regulations on environmental protections, health care, financial services and other industries as he made a push to showcase his accomplishments near the end of his first year in office. 
The remarks highlighted an area where Mr. Trump has perhaps done more to change the policies of his predecessor than any other, with regulatory shifts that have affected wide sections of the economy. 
"We are just getting started," Mr. Trump said, speaking from the Roosevelt Room of the White House. He described progress so far as the "most far-reaching regulatory reform" in United States history, a claim he did not back up. 
"We have decades of excess regulation to remove," he added. "To help launch the next phase of growth, prosperity and freedom, I am challenging my cabinet to find and remove every single outdated, unlawful and excessive regulation currently on the books." 
Echoing his days as a real estate developer with the flair of a groundbreaking, Mr. Trump used an oversize pair of scissors to cut a ribbon his staff had set up in front of two piles of paper, representing government regulations in 1960 (20,000 pages, he said), and today -- a pile that was about six feet tall (said to be 185,000 pages). 
His efforts -- his staff said that the rules already rolled back had saved $8.1 billion in regulatory costs over their lifetime, or a total of an estimated $570 million a year -- have brought cheers from the business community, most notably from companies that will benefit from the rollbacks. 
But these efforts have generated fierce pushback from state attorneys general and environmental groups who say that pulling back regulations has left the environment more vulnerable to pollution and consumers with fewer of the protections that were adopted after the financial crisis. 
In no part of government have the consequences of Mr. Trump's efforts to reverse the actions of the Obama administration been more apparent than in the Environmental Protection Agency. But the reach of the actions were pronounced even on Thursday, when the Federal Communications Commission voted to repeal Obama-era regulations known as net neutrality, which prohibit internet service providers from blocking or charging websites for higher-quality service. 
"Americans expect safe products, safe food and a financial marketplace that is fair to them," said Rachel Weintraub, the legislative director of the Consumer Federation of America, a nonprofit group. "Deregulation is undermining that." 
Still, several economic indicators -- and comments from companies large and small -- suggest that a shift in federal regulatory policy is building business confidence and accelerating economic growth, developments Mr. Trump certainly took credit for on Thursday. 
A survey of chief executives released this month by the Business Roundtable found that, for the first time in six years, executives did not cite regulation as the top cost pressure facing their companies. 
"C.E.O.s appear to be responding to the administration's energetic focus on regulation," Joshua Bolten, the roundtable's president, said this month. 
In total, the administration has so far formally revoked 67 rules, according to Neomi Rao, the head of the White House agency that oversees rulemaking, while 635 planned regulations were withdrawn, 244 regulations that had been proposed were put on "inactive" status and 700 regulations were "delayed." 
But even some of Mr. Trump's own staff members were not able to back up his broad claims on Thursday, including Ms. Rao, who when asked if the regulatory rollback was the biggest in United States history, acknowledged that she could not prove that, and instead pointed to the Reagan administration as another time when a large number of rules were revoked. 
And the $570 million in annual savings achieved so far, while a large-sounding number, can be compared to the $46 billion that the Department of Defense alone has paid to Lockheed Martin in contracts in the past fiscal year. 
Even so, Democratic state attorneys general, environmental groups and others have already filed dozens of lawsuits to try to stop or reverse the Trump administration rollbacks, meaning that the ultimate outcome may be decided in federal courts. 
"It is a mirage more than a miracle," Xavier Becerra, the California attorney general, said in an interview on Thursday, referring to the benefits to American society that Mr. Trump said have been gained. 
Mr. Becerra alone has filed at least seven lawsuits challenging these regulatory actions, including one filed on Thursday that claimed that the Department of Education is illegally delaying an Obama-era regulation that allows for loan forgiveness for students if they were defrauded or misled by their college. 
The most permanent part of the regulatory rollback -- with Mr. Trump's support -- has come via acts of Congress, which has used a power known as the Congressional Review Act to eliminate more than a dozen Obama-era initiatives, including one that was intended to prevent people with mental disabilities from buying guns. The review act, which had been used only once before the Trump administration, can nullify federal regulations for 60 legislative days after they have been finalized with a simple majority vote. 
But as the documents released Thursday show, individual federal agencies have heard the White House's call to reconsider a broad array of regulations, even though these agencies must go through a time-consuming process to repeal any rule. 
Coal mining has been an area of particular attention. 
The E.P.A., in addition to moving to reconsider a landmark Obama-era climate change rule that would have effectively forced the shutdown of dozens of coal-burning power plants, has separately moved to reconsider a rule that requires new precautions for the disposal of coal ash, a step taken after a series of accidents involving coal-ash ponds. The agency also has separately moved to delay the implementation of a rule intended to prevent damage to aquatic life as a result of water discharges from power plants, including those that burn coal. Congress repealed a measure intended to limit coal mining from destroying area streams. 
The Department of Interior repealed a moratorium on new leases of federal land for coal mining, and began the process of rejecting rules intended to increase royalty payments coal mining companies must pay to the federal government for coal extracted from this federal land. 
In the early summer, just as a rule to put new limits on beryllium, an industrial mineral linked to lung disease, went into effect, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration proposed a rule to revoke some of its provisions. This fall, the Department of Health and Human Services issued two rules rolling back a federal mandate that employers include birth control coverage in their health insurance plans. 
To help with the deregulatory effort, Mr. Trump ordered agencies in February to create teams to identify rules that could be cut, task forces that in many cases include members who previously worked for private-sector employers that had sought to weaken or kill the same rules, and others that may be positioned to profit if certain regulations are undone. 
The rollbacks are taking place in the form of rules and less formal ways, such as so-called guidance documents. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which oversees the nation's biggest banks, has for example been easing restrictions on those banks without having to write new regulations -- by changing policy in footnotes of government manuals in some cases. 
And a New York Times investigation recently found that, under Mr. Trump, the Environmental Protection Agency has adopted a more lenient approach to polluters than the previous two administrations, with significant declines both in the number of overall cases filed, as well as in fines and environmental repairs. That enforcement slowdown has coincided with major policy changes ordered by the team of Scott Pruitt, the agency's administrator, after pleas from oil and gas industry executives, according to internal documents obtained by The Times. 
"That is some of the biggest deregulatory action," said Stuart Shapiro, a professor at Rutgers University who served from 1998 to 2003 in the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs under Republican and Democratic administrations. "It sets the expectation for businesses that the cop is not on the beat." 
Credit: ERIC LIPTON and DANIELLE IVORY; Eric Lipton reported from Washington, and Danielle Ivory from New York. Michael Tackett contributed reporting from Washington. 
Photograph 
President Trump with a Stack of Paper That He Said Represented the Scope of Federal Regulation. (Photograph by Doug Mills/the New York Times); the Administration Is Undoing, or Reviewing, Rules That Govern the Coal Industry, and It Lifted a Moratorium On New Coal Leases. (Photograph by Joshua Roberts/Reuters) 
Copyright New York Times Company Dec 15, 2017 
Subject 	Regulatory agencies; 

Coal mining; 

Federal regulation; 
Regulatory reform; 
Regulation of financial institutions; 

Health care policy; 
Environmental policy 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Trump, Donald J 
Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 

NAICS: 924110; 

Name: Federal Communications Commission--FCC NAICS: 926130 
Title  'Most Far-Reaching' Rollback of Rules: [National Desk]  
Author  Lipton, Eric; Ivory, Danielle  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.16  

Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Dec 15, 2017  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1977016735  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1977016735?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Dec 15, 2017  
Last updated  2017-12-15  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 190 of 236 



'We Are Losing the Battle': [Foreign Desk] 
Breeden, Aurelien; Peltier, Elian.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]13 Dec 2017: A.11. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=%27We+Are+Losing+the+Battle%27%3A+%5BForeign+Desk%5D&title=New+Y 12-13&volume=&issue=&spage=A.11&au=Breeden%2C+Aurelien%3BPeltier%2C+Elian&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
BOULOGNE-BILLANCOURT, France -- Money was on everybody's mind at the climate summit meeting organized here on Tuesday, as President Emmanuel Macron of France tried to shore up support for the Paris climate deal by urging heads of state, chief executives and investors to commit more funding to the fight against global warming. 
But the gathering was overshadowed by President Trump's promise to pull the United States out of the deal, a move that has cast doubt on the ability of the international community to meet the emission goals that were set two years ago when the pact was adopted. 
"We are losing the battle," Mr. Macron said in his speech opening the talks. He called Mr. Trump's decision to pull out of the Paris deal "very bad news," but added that "many have decided to not necessarily accept the American federal government's decision to leave the Paris agreement." 
"Second, we are not going fast enough," Mr. Macron said. "What we are starting today is the time of action, because the urgency has become permanent and the challenge of our generation is to act." 
Several announcements by states, companies and international organizations were made at the meeting, aimed at helping industries and poorer countries reduce their greenhouse gas emissions and at shifting private investment away from fossil fuels toward cleaner, renewable energies. 
The World Bank, one of the organizers of the meeting, said it would no longer finance oil and gas exploration and extraction projects after 2019, with exceptions for poorer countries. Ma Kai, a vice premier of China, said that his country would start its own carbon market in the coming days. And Axa, the global insurance giant, announced that it would phase out insurance coverage "for new coal construction projects and oil sands businesses." 
Other announcements included the creation of a space observatory for climate research, a five-year initiative of 220 global investors to step up pressure on the 100 companies that emit the most greenhouse gas, and the start of a carbon pricing market, initiated by Mexico, to connect different regions of the Americas that have put a price tag on carbon, including California, Quebec and Ontario. 
But the leaders at the summit meeting did not announce new binding requirements to curb carbon emissions and did not unlock significant new funds to help developing countries transition away from fossil fuel economies. 
Jovenel Moïse, the president of Haiti, said that richer countries were lagging in their commitments. Industrialized nations have pledged to provide $100 billion a year by 2020 to help developing countries reduce their greenhouse gas emissions and address the effects of climate change. 
"Hurricanes aren't going to wait for Haiti, an island country," Mr. Moïse said. (While the relationship between climate change and hurricanes is complicated, it is becoming clear that a warming planet will produce wetter storms and that rising sea levels will worsen the impact of storm surges.) 
Critics called the announcements a vague laundry list of promises, and said that too much public and private funding continued to finance fossil fuels. The criticism comes on the heels of the climate conference in Bonn, Germany, which wrapped up last month with only modest accomplishments. 
"We left Bonn with the feeling that the job was unfinished," said Lucile Dufour, who follows international negotiations on climate change for Réseau Action Climat, a French advocacy group. "States made big speeches, but without any concrete or ambitious measures." 
Tuesday's meeting left her with a similar impression, she said. "The urgency is there in the speeches, but the announcements aren't." 
Still, some said the summit meeting on Tuesday showed increased awareness of climate change issues at the business and local level. 
"Cities, regions, companies -- everybody is asking what has to be done," said Laurence Tubiana, who was France's top climate change envoy at the 2015 talks in Paris. "That is a big change." 
More than 50 heads of state and government attended the gathering, held in a brand-new performing arts center shaped like a sailboat that sits on an island on the Seine southwest of Paris. 
Attendees included the United Nations secretary general, António Guterres; Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain; President Enrique Peña Nieto of Mexico; and Gov. Jerry Brown of California. The official American representative was D. Brent Hardt, chargé d'affaires at the United States Embassy in Paris. 
Businesspeople and philanthropists like Michael R. Bloomberg and Bill Gates also attended, as did the heads of multinational corporations and banking institutions, and celebrities like Sean Penn. 
The Paris climate deal was reached in December 2015, when nearly every country in the world agreed to reduce emissions of planet-warming greenhouse gases. Since then, Nicaragua and Syria, two holdouts in 2015, have said they would join the agreement, leaving only the United States opposed. 
Mr. Macron has been one of the most vocal world leaders trying to fill the void left by Mr. Trump. In an interview with CBS News that aired on Monday, the French president said the United States' withdrawal had created "huge momentum" that helped him "create a countermomentum." 
Calling Mr. Trump's decision to leave the accord "extremely aggressive," he repeated warnings made in September at the United Nations General Assembly that he would not renegotiate the Paris agreement with Mr. Trump. But Mr. Macron added, "I'm ready to welcome him if he decides to come back." 
Americans at the meeting -- several of whom were also present in Bonn as a kind of shadow delegation -- were dismissive of Mr. Trump, arguing that the American president's position on climate change would help rally those in favor of action against global warming. 
Governor Brown said the effort in the United States to fight climate change was being led "from the cities, from the states, from corporate leaders, from universities." 
"We have a climate denier in the White House who says climate change is a hoax, that there is no evidence, that it is a total fantasy -- but there it is," Mr. Brown said. "We can't wait for the White House to wake up." 
Follow Aurelien Breeden @aurelienbrd and Elian Peltier @ElianPeltier on Twitter. 
Photograph 
President Emmanuel Macron of France, Left, and King Mohammed Vi of Morocco On Tuesday Before Climate Talks Near Paris. (Photograph by Yoan Valat/Agence France-Presse -­Getty Images); "Hurricanes Aren't Going to Wait for Haiti," Said Jovenel MoïSe, the President. (Photograph by Ludovic Marin/A.F.P. -- Getty Images) 
Copyright New York Times Company Dec 13, 2017 
Subject 	Greenhouse gases; 
Fossil fuels; 
Emissions; 

Carbon; 
Developing countries--LDCs; 
Presidents; 
International organizations; 

Paris Agreement; 

Greenhouse effect; 
Climate change; 
Summit conferences; 

Global warming; 
Environmental protection; 
Environmental policy 


Location 	Mexico; United States--US; Quebec Canada; China; California; France; Haiti 
People 	Macron, Emmanuel 
Company / organization 	Name: International Bank for Reconstruction & Development--World Bank 

NAICS: 928120 


Title 	'We Are Losing the Battle': [Foreign Desk] 
Author 	Breeden, Aurelien; Peltier, Elian 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.11 
Publication year 	2017 
Publication date 	Dec 13, 2017 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	General Interest Periodicals--United States 
ISSN 	03624331 
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1975849586  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1975849586?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Dec 13, 2017  
Last updated  2019-09-16  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 191 of 236 



Even Spandex Is Hit By an Energy Squeeze: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Bradsher, Keith.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]13 Dec 2017: B.2. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Even+Spandex+Is+Hit+By+an+Energy+Squeeze%3A+%5BBusiness%2FFinanci 12-13&volume=&issue=&spage=B.2&au=Bradsher%2C+Keith&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
BEIJING -- Homes, businesses and even hospitals across northern China are running short of natural gas. Some schoolchildren are shivering. And in the chemical industry -­well, the spandex supply is getting tight. 
More than a decade ago, China began moving gradually to rely more on natural gas and less on coal, a dirtier form of energy. This autumn, faced with public pressure to clean smoggy skies, the government decided to pick up the pace. 
In some places, that shift has gone awry. 
The Chinese government on Tuesday shut down big chemical factories in western China for as long as four months to free up natural gas to heat homes and schools. And in Beijing, the city authorities have very publicly reversed a heavily promoted policy of ending municipal coal use. The city has turned a big coal-fired power plant in its southeastern suburbs back on -- in the chilly air, it releases a towering, gray cloud of steam and pollution visible from tall buildings across much of the city. 
"It is the most severe shortfall of natural gas since the commitment to build up gas demand," said Daniel Yergin, the energy consultant and author, who is visiting Beijing this week. 
The disruptions so far appear temporary. But they show how painful and expensive it will be for China to clean up its air and wean itself from dirty-burning coal. The fossil fuel helped propel the country's economy to become the world's second-largest, and efforts to break its coal addiction could have global, as well as national, consequences. 
The Chinese government is trying to reduce air pollution by 15 percent this winter in much of northern China, where pollution tends to be the country's worst, particularly during colder months when coal is widely burned for heat. 
Through the autumn, government inspectors did not just order schools, businesses and homes to shut down coal-fired stoves and boilers and switch to natural gas. They made sure that their orders would not be defied, dismantling and removing large numbers of coal-fired devices, according to state-controlled media. 
Winter has arrived early, however, and it has been especially cold this year, triggering unexpectedly high demand for heating. At the same time, natural gas has been in short supply, and in some cases construction has not been completed on the pipelines needed to deliver it. 
The result has been a national outcry, particularly after the official newspaper People's Daily published photos last week of elementary school students having classes outdoors in subfreezing weather because it was even colder indoors. 
"In the past, the heating problems had occurred, but this year the issue is particularly severe because the supply side has not caught up," said Lin Boqiang, an energy analyst at Xiamen University. "In planning the emissions goals, the government has not really coordinated well with gas producers." 
China already consumes considerably more natural gas than it produces, importing the difference. The country also regulates the price at which state-controlled energy giants are allowed to sell natural gas, to encourage its domestic use as a cleaner-burning substitute for coal. 
Keeping prices low, though, has meant that energy companies have had little incentive to produce or import more natural gas. PetroChina, the main oil and gas company in northern China, reported that its losses from natural gas climbed steeply in the first three quarters of this year compared with the same period in 2016. 
Yet there is one big exception in consumer prices for natural gas in China: the compressed natural gas burned by many taxis in big Chinese cities, and by a growing number of trucks as well. Compressed natural gas prices have surged 65 percent since early November, prompting government officials to warn last week against price gouging. 
The timing of China's revival of coal consumption this week is awkward: Officials have been promoting their country's efforts to control global warming in international talks this month in Europe. China's planet-warming greenhouse gas emissions have risen sharply over the past decade, but it has also shown much more of a willingness than the Trump administration to talk about ways to curb that growth in the future. 
The natural gas shortage has particularly hit the chemicals industry in China, with consequences for the wider world. 
BASF, the German chemicals giant, announced on Tuesday that a gas shortage had prompted it to invoke force majeure to break delivery contracts from its huge complex in Chongqing, in western China. That factory alone manufactures more than 5 percent of the world's supply of a chemical, known as MDI, that is used to make spandex as well as insulation for refrigerators, cars and houses. 
While MDI factories outside China mainly produce the chemical for insulation, China dominates global production of garments made from spandex, the stretchy material best known in the United States under the Lycra brand name. The BASF shutdown may drive MDI prices even higher. That will make spandex garments more expensive, but should not result in their disappearance from store shelves, chemicals analysts said. 
And while Chinese environmentalists have led the push for using more natural gas and less coal, even they now say the government may have moved too fast. 
"The problem is not about what they are doing, but whether you can achieve the goal in a short period of time," said Ma Jun, the director of the Institute of Public and Environmental Affairs, a nonprofit group in Beijing that monitors pollution. "The officials are ill prepared, and there has been a lack of discussion on execution." 
Follow Keith Bradsher on Twitter: @KeithBradsher. 
Credit: KEITH BRADSHER; Ailin Tang and Owen Guo contributed research. 

Photograph 
A Natural Gas Processing Plant in Sulige, Inner Mongolia, in 2013. A Shortfall of Natural Gas in China has Hurt the Chemicals Industry. (Photograph by Chen Aizhu/Reuters) 
Copyright New York Times Company Dec 13, 2017 
Subject 	Chemicals; 
Chemical industry; 
Coal-fired power plants; 
Factories; 
Natural gas prices; 
Emissions; 

Energy industry; 

Compressed natural gas; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Shutdowns 


Location 	China 
Title 	Even Spandex Is Hit By an Energy Squeeze: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Author 	Bradsher, Keith 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	B.2 
Publication year 	2017 
Publication date 	Dec 13, 2017 
Section 	B 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	General Interest Periodicals--United States 
ISSN 	03624331 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	News 
ProQuest document ID 	1975849561 
Document URL 	https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1975849561?accountid=14902 
Copyright 	Copyright New York Times Company Dec 13, 2017 Last updated 2017-12-13 
Database Global Newsstream 
document 192 of 236 


The Looting of America's Public Lands: [Editorial] 
New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]10 Dec 2017: SR.8. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=The+Looting+of+America%27s+Public+Lands%3A+%5BEditorial%5D&title=N 12-10&volume=&issue=&spage=SR.8&au=&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
The protections put in place over the last half-century by both political parties to guarantee Americans clean air, clean water and bountiful open space have been coming apart at the seams since President Trump took office. The last few weeks have been particularly brutal for conservationists and, indeed, anyone who believes that big chunks of America's public lands, however rich they may be in commercial resources, are best left in their natural state. 
On Monday, Mr. Trump withdrew some two million acres of spectacular landscape from two national monuments in Utah designated by his Democratic predecessors. This followed the Senate's decision last weekend to authorize oil drilling in the coastal plain of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, an area full of wildlife, of talismanic significance to environmentalists and of great economic importance to Native Americans. 
The arguments in both cases were the same: America needs the energy buried beneath these lands -- oil in the case of the refuge, coal in Utah. And both arguments were equally spurious: Coal is in free fall as an energy source, feared as a major cause of climate change and run off the market by cheaper natural gas. Oil, meanwhile, is in such plentiful supply that America's net imports are at their lowest since 1970. 
But none of these annoying facts can erode Mr. Trump's belief that, in the continuing tug-of-war between commercial development and environmental protection, the environment has too often gotten the best of it, and the time has come to rebalance the scales. This mind-set is shared by all of Mr. Trump's appointees who have anything to do with the environment, and it is a virtual copy of the thinking that prevailed among George W. Bush's policymakers 15 years ago, many of whom have emerged like creatures from the crypt to occupy key positions in the Trump administration. 
The shrinking of the two Utah monuments has been ordained ever since Mr. Trump ordered Ryan Zinke, his interior secretary, to review all national monuments of more than 100,000 acres that were designated after Jan. 1, 1996. While that order encompassed 27 monuments altogether, its main targets were its two bookends -- the 1.9 million-acre Grand Staircase-Escalante, established by President Bill Clinton in 1996, and Bears Ears, a 1.35 million-acre expanse protected last year by President Barack Obama. Mr. Trump ordered the reduction of Grand Staircase by 800,000 acres, or nearly half, and Bears Ears by 1.1 million acres, or 85 percent, adorning his order with the usual boilerplate about having to rush to the rescue of local citizens trampled by "federal overreach" and "because some people think that the natural resources of Utah should be controlled by a small handful of very distant bureaucrats located in Washington." 
A more honest accounting is that the people doing the trampling are, in fact, a small handful of Utah lawmakers. Most prominent among them is Senator Orrin Hatch, who is most chummy with the president, but other members of the Utah congressional delegation have also resented public ownership of Utah's lands. But they do not, by any means, have ordinary citizens behind them. Polls have shown considerable support among Utah's citizens for the monuments -- one of which, the Grand Staircase, has large though not easily marketable coal deposits; neither of which has much oil and gas; and each of which is a treasure trove of magnificent landscapes and priceless Native American artifacts. 
With his order, Mr. Trump has plunged into uncharted legal territory. While the statute that underlies monument designations -- the Antiquities Act of 1906, one of Theodore Roosevelt's major conservation achievements -- gives presidents unilateral authority to establish monuments, it does not give them the authority to abolish monuments. That right lies exclusively with Congress. Less clear is whether a president can significantly reduce the size of a monument, which Mr. Trump has clearly done. 
The lawsuits have already begun, pursued not only by Native American tribes and environmental groups, but also by Patagonia, the big outdoors company. The outcome of these suits (and they will take time) will affect not only the Utah monuments but also eight others Mr. Zinke has recommended for more modest downsizing or for changes in the way they are managed. Among these are a marine monument in the Pacific that was established by Mr. Bush and added to by Mr. Obama, and another in the Atlantic, established by Mr. Obama. 
The order has also shredded what little is left of Mr. Zinke's reputation in the environmental community. Mr. Zinke, it will be recalled, rode a horse to work at the Interior Department on his first day on the job, in plain imitation of Teddy Roosevelt, a comparison that he has since invoked several times but that now seems ludicrous. As president, Mr. Roosevelt gave federal protection to 230 million acres (including 18 national monuments). Mr. Zinke, only 10 months into the job, is already in negative territory to the tune of about two million acres, with more coming. 
In any other week, Lisa Murkowski, a Republican senator from Alaska, would have been public enemy No. 1 among conservationists. She deserves dishonorable mention nonetheless, for slipping a provision into the Senate tax bill that would open the coastal plain of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to the oil companies. The passage of that bill, which now goes to conference with the House, puts Ms. Murkowski on the cusp of winning a 40-year battle joined by her father, Senator Frank Murkowski, to allow drilling in the refuge's coastal plain, a 1.5 million acre ribbon that was not protected as wilderness under the original laws establishing the refuge and that can be opened only by Congress. 
One official estimate says the refuge may contain about seven billion barrels of technically (but not necessarily economically) recoverable oil, a huge find but not much more than one year's annual consumption in this country. Like nearly all other Alaska politicians, Ms. Murkowski wants that oil extracted because Alaskans would benefit from its royalties. But all previous attempts to open the refuge have failed. President Clinton vetoed one attempt in 1995; moderate Republicans in the House rose up to help defeat another in 2005. In each case, the coastal plain's value as wilderness and as home to an astonishing variety of wildlife -- it has been called America's Serengeti -- trumped whatever temporary additions it could make to America's domestic oil supply. 
Buttressed this time by an unshakable Republican majority (and with no Democrat lurking in the White House with a veto pen), Ms. Murkowski sold her proposal as a way to raise revenue to offset the tax bill's huge costs. It was a squirrelly argument, as shaky as many of the other provisions in that bill. It promises to raise a billion dollars by leasing 800,000 acres of the refuge, which assumes a huge per acre auction price (well north of $2,000 an acre, since Alaska gets half the proceeds). Data from previous lease sales across the North Slope since 2000, analyzed by David Murphy, an assistant professor at St. Lawrence University, suggest that the government will be lucky to collect one-fifth of that amount. 
Members of Alaska's small congressional delegation (the ineffable Don Young, who detests environmentalists, is the state's only current member of the House) have always been extraordinarily resourceful in looking out for their constituents. It is not surprising, then, that Ms. Murkowski promises mischief elsewhere in the legislative landscape. Buried deep in the Senate's Interior Department appropriation bill, and ready for inclusion in any endgame budget negotiations with the House, is a provision that would threaten rare and valuable old-growth forests in the Tongass National Forest. It would do so by exempting 9.6 million acres of the Tongass from the Roadless Rule, enacted by the Forest Service in 2001 under President Clinton. The rule, which has survived seemingly endless court challenges, effectively barred logging on 58 million acres of largely undisturbed forest land across the nation, including the Tongass. It remains one of Mr. Clinton's finest environmental achievements, and putting Alaska's old-growth trees back in the hands of the loggers would be a disgrace. 
So it goes for the environment these days in Mr. Trump's Washington. The Obama administration nixes a huge and potentially destructive gold mine in Alaska because it would threaten the world's richest salmon fishery in Bristol Bay. Scott Pruitt, Mr. Trump's administrator at the Environmental Protection Agency, meets with mining company officials and tells them they can go ahead and file for a new permit. The Obama administration works for two years to save an endangered bird, the sage grouse, and after lengthy negotiations with state governments, conservationists and energy companies, develops an innovative plan to protect millions of acres of sage grouse habitat across 10 states. But as soon as Mr. Trump is elected, the oil and gas companies complain to Mr. Zinke, who orders a review of the plan and is likely to weaken it. 
Somewhere, in retirement, Dick Cheney, who as vice president was the main architect of Mr. Bush's retrograde environmental policies, has to be smiling. Mr. Trump is doing what Mr. Cheney always wanted to get done. The silver lining for the other side (admittedly a barely detectable one these days) is that Mr. Cheney ultimately failed. 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 
Credit: THE EDITORIAL BOARD 

Illustration 
Drawing (Drawing by Grant Higa) 
Copyright New York Times Company Dec 10, 2017 
Subject 	Memorials & monuments; 
Appropriations; 
Wildlife sanctuaries; 
Environmentalists; 
Public lands; 
Presidents; 
Environmental protection; 
Environmental policy; 
Natural gas utilities; 
Energy industry; 

Climate change; 
Coal; 
Coastal plains; 
Editorials; 

Conservation 


Location 	Alaska; Utah; United States--US 
People 	Trump, Donald J; Zinke, Ryan 
Company / organization 	Name: Arctic National Wildlife Refuge 

NAICS: 712190, 924120 


Title 	The Looting of America's Public Lands: [Editorial] 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	SR.8 
Publication year 	2017 
Publication date 	Dec 10, 2017 
column 	Editorial 
Section 	SR 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  1974692223  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1974692223?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Dec 10, 2017  
Last updated  2018-08-09  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 193 of 236 


The Trump Administration's Coal Bailout: [Editorial] 
New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]08 Dec 2017: A.28. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=The+Trump+Administration%27s+Coal+Bailout%3A+%5BEditorial%5D&title= 12-08&volume=&issue=&spage=A.28&au=&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Federal energy regulators will soon vote on a ham-fisted Trump administration proposal to subsidize coal-fired power plants. This plan could cost families and businesses billions of dollars in higher electricity prices for no discernible public benefit. 
The measure in question comes from the energy secretary, Rick Perry, and amounts to a devious and reckless attempt to prop up coal-fired plants, which have been shutting down in recent years because they cannot compete against cheaper and cleaner natural gas plants and renewable sources of energy like wind and solar. 
Mr. Perry's plan would provide what amounts to a bonus for power plants with at least a 90-day supply of fuel on site, which he says will make the electrical grid more reliable. Coal and nuclear power plants are the only ones that fit that description, because natural gas plants are supplied by pipeline and wind and solar require no fuel. But it is clear that the primary aim here is to bolster the coal industry, which President Trump embraced unreservedly on the campaign trail and whose moguls embraced him right back. 
The fate of this boondoggle rests with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, an independent regulator that is not bound to do what the administration wants. Its five commissioners -- three Republicans and two Democrats -- ought to think carefully before casting their votes. Mr. Perry's proposal could add around $11 billion a year to the cost of electricity, depending on how the rule is interpreted, according to four separate research reports. Yet it would do little to improve the electrical grid. That's because less than one-hundredth of 1 percent of power failures between 2012 and 2016 were caused by fuel supply emergencies, according to the Rhodium Group, a research firm. 
Regrettably, facts do not seem to matter to Mr. Perry, who famously called for the elimination of the Energy Department without understanding what it does. He has used a number of disingenuous arguments to justify his cockamamie proposal, including suggesting that it would have helped the grid deal with emergencies like the 2014 polar vortex, when frigid winds slammed the Northeast. In fact, the grid worked reasonably well then thanks to wind turbines and demand response, the system where grid operators ask big electricity users to temporarily use less juice. By contrast, some coal-fired power plants were unable to generate electricity because their coal piles froze and their equipment malfunctioned in subfreezing temperatures. 
This proposal has been so poorly thought out that it has made odd bedfellows of groups that are often on opposing sides of big policy debates. The oil and gas industry, for instance, has teamed up with renewable energy and environmental groups to fight it. Eight former FERC commissioners from both parties have sent a letter opposing the plan, arguing that it "would be a significant step backward from the commission's long and bipartisan evolution to transparent, open, competitive wholesale markets." 
If the Trump administration were truly concerned about reliability and resilience, it would have taken time to study the issue and identify the grid's weakest links. It would have found that many power failures are caused when hurricanes and other severe weather knock out transmission lines and other equipment. During Hurricane Harvey in Texas, where Mr. Perry was once governor, coal-fired power plants had to switch to natural gas because their fuel became too wet to be moved. 
There is no question the government needs to think about and prepare for more blackouts. Most scientists expect an increase in severe weather events because of climate change, which Mr. Trump has described as a "hoax." But it is doing the country no favors by using electrical reliability as a ruse to prop up its favored fossil fuel and stick ratepayers with the bill. 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 
Credit: THE EDITORIAL BOARD 
Illustration 
Drawing (Drawing by Lisk Feng) 
Copyright New York Times Company Dec 8, 2017 
Subject 	Nuclear energy; 

Coal-fired power plants; 
Electricity; 
Wind; 
Nuclear power plants; 

Natural gas; 
Editorials; 

Government subsidies; 
Utility rates; 

Electric utilities; Energy policy 
Location  United States--US  
People  Trump, Donald J  
Company / organization  Name: Federal Energy Regulatory Commission--FERC  
NAICS: 926110, 926130  
Title  The Trump Administration's Coal Bailout: [Editorial]  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.28  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Dec 8, 2017  
column  Editorial  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  1973699486  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1973699486?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Dec 8, 2017  
Last updated  2017-12-27  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 194 of 236 


Powering Up for the Future: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Cardwell, Diane.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]01 Dec 2017: B.1. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Powering+Up+for+the+Future%3A+%5BBusiness%2FFinancial+Desk%5D&title= 12-01&volume=&issue=&spage=B.1&au=Cardwell%2C+Diane&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
SUNNYVALE, Calif. -- As a scientist working for NASA in the 1990s, K. R. Sridhar developed a contraption that could use energy from the sun to transform the elements of the Martian atmosphere into breathable air or propulsion fuel. 
It passed all its tests, but a planned mission to send it to Mars in 2001 was canceled and Dr. Sridhar moved on, looking to apply what he had learned to help stem climate change on earth instead. 
"I came full circle -- I was trying to make a really uninhabitable planet habitable," Dr. Sridhar, 56, said recently, holding a black-domed prototype of the shelved device at his Silicon Valley office. "I was thinking, 'I can do something to make this planet a little more sustainable.' " 
Almost two decades later, that thought has led to a fleet of fuel-cell generators that produce electricity through a chemical reaction. And with a recent deal for Dr. Sridhar's company, Bloom Energy, to install generators at a dozen data centers in California and New Jersey for Equinix, a leading operator, it is poised for a major expansion. 
The aim of the deal, financed by a subsidiary of a deep-pocketed electric utility, Southern Company, is not only to create a reliable energy source for a power-thirsty industry, but also to help validate a technology that has struggled to gain mainstream acceptance. 
What is striking is that the fuel cells are not running on hydrogen, like the ones long seen as a promising power source for cars. Instead, they use natural gas, which has become plentiful after a production boom over the last decade. 
Even though they consume fossil fuels, the gas-powered cells have attracted the attention of some environment-minded policymakers, investors and entrepreneurs because they release less of the heat-trapping gases like carbon dioxide than conventional plants. And they have been slowly finding fans among energy-conscious corporations -- in Walmart stores, eBay data centers and Morgan Stanley's corporate headquarters. 
Scott Samuelsen, director of the National Fuel Cell Research Center at the University of California, Irvine, said data centers could become an important market for fuel cells because the industry "appears to want to be more environmentally sensitive but more reliant on their own resources." 
Part of the environmental appeal lies in their efficiency. Fuel cells are generally installed on site, so they do not need to burn extra fuel to compensate for energy lost over long transmission lines. In addition, they use less fuel per watt of power than conventional plants because they don't burn fuels to heat water or air to spin turbines. 
That also makes them quiet, which has proved a surprising barrier to their acceptance among potential customers, Professor Samuelsen said. "It's hard for anyone to believe that they're making any power," he said. "It's not like a jet engine." 
The innovations at Bloom stem from Dr. Sridhar's work on NASA's Mars exploration program when he was director of the Space Technologies Laboratory at the University of Arizona. Trained as a mechanical engineer in his native India, Dr. Sridhar arrived at the lab after getting a doctorate at the University of Illinois. 
On the Mars project, he focused on using electricity to fuel chemical reactions among elements found on the Red Planet, even creating dirt capable of germinating a seed. Figuring that he should be able to reverse the process, he founded Bloom and worked on converting chemical energy to electricity using readily available fuels and conductors. 
Eventually, he and his team hit upon a version of the current design of roughly 5-inch-square fuel cells fused together in stacks -- each about the size of a half-loaf of bread and capable of powering an average home. The stacks are loaded into tubular metal casings before being enclosed in banks about the size of a refrigerator that can then be arrayed on the ground or a roof to run large facilities. 
The equipment, produced at the company headquarters here with final assembly at a factory in Delaware, is simultaneously high- and low-tech. Each cell is made from a thin ceramic wafer that is mainly zirconia -- a relative of the diamond substitute. In a process reminiscent of high school art class, the wafers are screen printed with chemical inks on each side in an automated sequence and then fired in kilns. They are sandwiched between metal plates, and the resulting structure is a solid oxide fuel cell that can operate at very high temperatures, about 800 degrees Celsius, or 1,472 degrees Fahrenheit. 
At that temperature, when natural gas mixed with steam flows over one surface of the cell while oxygen flows over the other, a reaction results in the release of electricity, steam that is recycled through the process and carbon dioxide. 
Equinix tested the Bloom cells at a data center in San Jose for 18 months before committing to the current arrangement, in which it will buy the energy under a 15-year power purchase agreement. The company, which runs more than 185 data centers on five continents, serves as a kind of cloud and network broker. It builds and operates facilities that provide space, power and cooling as well as work rooms, showers and a security system featuring a series of locked chambers like something out of "Get Smart." The client companies bring their own servers and other hardware to plug into more than 1,000 networks that connect them to customers and to each other. 
The Southern Company, based in Atlanta, comes into the partnership because it has unregulated businesses that sell power nationwide. In this case, Southern buys the fuel-cell generators from Bloom and then, through a subsidiary called PowerSecure, sells the output to Equinix under a 15-year agreement. 
The Bloom deal with Equinix and Southern is among the largest ever for a fuel-cell business, but Bloom faces competition from other providers, like Fuel Cell Energy, which is based in Danbury, Conn., and has a partnership with Exxon Mobil. It has won a number of recent contracts, which include installing and operating three fuel-cell projects for the Long Island Power Authority and one that will supply power for the Navy submarine base in Groton, Conn. 
Indeed, the United States government has had a hand in the technology's development through grant programs at the Energy Department and a federal tax credit that expired at the end of last year. 
The natural-gas fuel cells provide some environmental advantages over traditional power plants that run on fossil fuels: They use little water and release almost no harmful smog emissions. The Bloom cells can also run on biogas or hydrogen, which would make them even more environmentally friendly, given a steady supply of those fuels. 
The usefulness of natural-gas fuel cells in reducing greenhouse gas emissions is a matter of some debate, however. Some environmentalists and public-utility officials say the fuel cells' emissions may be understated and question whether their carbon reductions are sufficient to warrant public subsidies. 
Still, their emissions are well below the average for coal-fired plants. Bloom puts the emissions of its natural-gas cells in the range of 679 to 833 pounds of carbon dioxide per megawatt-hour, while coal plants released 2,252 pounds of carbon dioxide per megawatt-hour in the second quarter of this year, according to the Power Sector Carbon Index, an analysis published by the Scott Institute for Energy Innovation at Carnegie Mellon University. They are much closer to those of natural-gas plants, which, according to the index, averaged 938 pounds per megawatt-hour during the same period. 
Though companies looking to power energy-hungry data centers have often sought out hydroelectric power, which does not depend on fossil fuels and is generally inexpensive, fuel-cell technology is gaining traction, especially for customers who need an extremely steady power supply even during storms. For Tom Fanning, chief executive of Southern Company, the partnership with Bloom is part of a bid to take advantage of the technological advances that are upending the electric industry by allowing customers to make their own power, known as distributed generation. 
"For 100 years, we have had a business model predicated on the notion of making, moving and selling electricity, essentially up to a meter," he said in a telephone interview. "We started seeing this make-move-and-sell model moving to the customer premises. And so we decided to become involved in this space." 

Photograph 
Oliver Cruz, a Technician, On the Manufacturing Floor at Bloom Energy, a Producer of Fuel Cells in Sunnyvale, Calif. (B1); Dr. K. R. Sridhar has Developed a Solid Oxide Fuel Cell That Uses Natural Gas Instead of Hydrogen. Above, Fuel Cells Fused Together in Stacks, Each of Which Can Power a Home. (Photographs by Peter Prato for the New York Times) (B5) 
Copyright New York Times Company Dec 1, 2017 
Subject 	Computer centers; 
Gases; 
Electricity; 
Fossil fuels; 
Emissions; 

Electric industries; 
Carbon dioxide; 
Energy; 
Coal-fired power plants; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Mars; 
Natural gas; 
Fuel cells; 

Hydroelectric power; 
Alternative energy sources; 

Research & development--R&D 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Sridhar, K R 
Company / organization 	Name: Morgan Stanley 

NAICS: 523110, 523120, 523920; 


Name: Southern Co NAICS: 221112, 221122; 
Name: National Aeronautics & Space Administration--NASA NAICS: 927110; 
Name: Bloom Energy Corp NAICS: 335999; 
Name: Equinix Inc NAICS: 518210, 541513 
Title 	Powering Up for the Future: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Author  Cardwell, Diane  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.1  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Dec 1, 2017  
Section  B  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1970502271  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1970502271?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Dec 1, 2017  
Last updated  2018-12-14  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 195 of 236 


Pressured, Shell Vows To Cut Down On Carbon: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Krauss, Clifford.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]29 Nov 2017: B.4. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Pressured%2C+Shell+Vows+To+Cut+Down+On+Carbon%3A+%5BBusiness%2F 11-29&volume=&issue=&spage=B.4&au=Krauss%2C+Clifford&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Bowing to pressure from shareholders and the Paris international climate accord, Royal Dutch Shell pledged on Tuesday to increase its investment in renewable fuels and to cut its carbon emissions in half by 2050. 
Shell and other big oil companies have moved only sporadically over the last decade toward greater production of wind and solar energy. Now there are signs of a commitment to take climate change more seriously. 
In comments to investors, Ben van Beurden, Shell's chief executive, said that from 2018 to 2020, the company's new-energies division would spend up to $2 billion a year on renewable energy sources like wind, solar and hydrogen power and on electric-car charging stations. 
While that sum is a large increase from Shell's previous commitment, it is well below 10 percent of the oil giant's total investment dollars. Still, Mr. van Beurden stressed that the pledge was just a start and that the company supported the goal of the Paris accord, which is to keep global temperatures from rising more than 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) above preindustrial levels. 
"We will do this in step with society's drive to align with the Paris goals," Mr. Van Beurden added, "and we will do it by reducing the net carbon footprint of the full range of Shell emissions, from our operations and from the consumption from our products." 
Shell, Europe's largest oil company, said it aimed to reduce its greenhouse-gas emissions by 20 percent by 2035 and by half by 2050. The growing global dependence on natural gas, as a replacement for coal, should help Shell meet its goals since it has made a big investment in producing and trading gas. 
Environmentalists gave the Shell pledge generally positive reviews. 
"It's good that they are looking in the right direction," said Dan Becker, director of the Washington-based Safe Climate Campaign. "They are ahead of their competitors in recognizing that the days of oil dependence are numbered." 
But he added, "We'll have to make progress a lot more quickly than they are projecting in order to protect the climate." 
Since the adoption of the 2015 Paris accord, in which most of the countries in the world agreed to set goals to reduce their greenhouse-gas emissions, international oil companies have begun to make more public pledges to reduce their carbon releases. 
Several European oil companies have acknowledged that they would have to leave some carbon resources in the ground. Statoil, the Norwegian oil company, has begun a major shift toward investing in wind power. This month, Shell and seven other oil companies pledged to reduce emissions of methane, a potent greenhouse gas, from leaky pipes and wells. 
Shell is working with BMW, Daimler, Ford and Volkswagen to install fast-charging stations on Europe's highways to make electric cars capable of longer trips. Shell has projected that the expansion of the global electric-car fleet over the next decade will significantly slash gasoline demand. 
Perhaps Shell's most ambitious project is its Quest carbon capture and storage project in Canada, which recovers carbon dioxide emissions from a major oil-sands project and then compresses it into a liquid for storage underground. The project is one of only a few in the world. 
While some energy experts say carbon capture could be a useful tool to control climate change, skeptics say the technology is too expensive to be deployed broadly enough to make a real difference. 
Generally, European oil companies have moved faster on climate efforts than their American counterparts, partly because there is a broader political consensus on the problem on the Continent. Norway, though a major oil producer, is considering removing oil investments from the holdings of its sovereign wealth fund. 
Mr. van Beurden said the company would measure the accomplishments of the carbon-reduction effort in reports every five years. "This is a challenge for the whole planet," he said. 
Shell's carbon pledge followed a shareholder resolution, backed by the company, that called on Shell to embrace targets to improve its performance to control climate change. 
Mark van Baal, founder of Follow This, a group of environmentally minded Shell shareholders that has the support of the Church of England and an assortment of Dutch institutional investors, praised the initiative as "an ambitious decision to take leadership in achieving the goals of the Paris climate agreement." 
In the meantime, Shell appears to be making increasing profits from oil and gas. With oil prices and cash flow gradually rising again, Shell announced on Tuesday that it was 
reviving its all-cash dividend, discarding a program that gave shareholders an option of receiving dividends in shares of stock, which had been depressed in recent years. 
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 
Copyright New York Times Company Nov 29, 2017 

Subject  Stockholders;  
Carbon sequestration;  
Institutional investments;  
Alternative energy sources;  
Emissions;  
Climate change;  
Natural gas  
Location  Europe  
Company / organization  Name: Royal Dutch Shell PLC  
NAICS: 213112, 221210, 324110  
Title  Pressured, Shell Vows To Cut Down On Carbon: [Business/Financial Desk]  
Author  Krauss, Clifford  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.4  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Nov 29, 2017  
Section  B  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1969601087  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1969601087?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Nov 29, 2017  
Last updated  2017-11-29  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 196 of 236 


In Heart of Coal Country, Hearing on the Repeal of Obama's Clean Power Plan: [National Desk] 
Schwartz, John.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]29 Nov 2017: A.12. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=In+Heart+of+Coal+Country%2C+Hearing+on+the+Repeal+of+Obama%27s+Cl 11-29&volume=&issue=&spage=A.12&au=Schwartz%2C+John&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Want the latest climate news in your inbox? You can sign up here to receive Climate Fwd:, our new email newsletter. 
CHARLESTON, W.Va. -- The Environmental Protection Agency convened a public hearing on Tuesday on its plan to roll back the signature climate change rule of the Obama administration. More than 270 people signed up to speak. 
The regulation, known as Clean Power Plan, would require states to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from power plants, particularly those that burn coal. The plan, finalized in 2015, would have accelerated a shift already underway from coal-generated power to natural gas and renewable energy sources like wind and solar power. 
The proposal sparked a bitter fight from coal interests and from many conservative state officials. The former Oklahoma attorney general, Scott Pruitt, was one of the officials in 29 states who filed a lawsuit to fight the plan. President Trump named Mr. Pruitt head of the E.P.A., where he has made it a top priority to reverse what he has called the Obama administration's "war on coal." 
Mr. Trump and Mr. Pruitt, like many other administration officials, question the overwhelming scientific evidence that climate change is mainly caused by human activity -- a conclusion repeated this month by the government's own scientists in 13 federal agencies. 
As part of a broad effort to uproot the environmental policies of the Obama administration, Mr. Pruitt announced in October that he would kill the Clean Power Plan, which he said did not follow regulatory norms and imposed undue burdens on states and energy producers. Tuesday's public hearing was a required part of undoing the regulation. 
Mr. Pruitt did not attend. 
Holding the hearing in West Virginia "is like holding the only hearing on financial deregulation at the Wall Street Hilton -- it does not denote a keen interest in alternative views," Michael B. Gerrard, the director of the Sabin Center for Climate Change Law at Columbia Law School, said in an interview last week. 
So many people requested time to speak that they were spread out over three meeting rooms in the state capitol during the two days set aside for the hearing. 
During the morning hearing, Patrick Morrisey, the attorney general of West Virginia, led off the speakers, saying that the power plan "is not only unlawful, but it's bad policy as well." He led the coalition of states that sued to stop the power plan. The Supreme Court in February delayed enforcement of the regulation. (In similar fashion, a number of Democratic state attorneys general, including Maura Healey of Massachusetts and Eric T. Schneiderman of New York, have pledged to fight the repeal in court.) 
Robert E. Murray, founder and president of Murray Energy, a major coal producer, exulted, "In President Trump, we finally have a president who has vowed to preserve coal jobs." The Obama administration's rule, which he called the "so-called and illegal Clean Power Plan, better known as the no-power plan," would impose "massive costs on the power sector and American consumers" while eliminating even more coal jobs. 
Before the hearing began, Mr. Murray warmly greeted dozens of miners whom his company brought in by bus for the event. "You all know you have to work the afternoon shift now," he joked. 
Several groups are also holding an alternate hearing across the Kanawha River, at the University of Charleston, to discuss the environmental, health and climate benefits of reducing coal consumption. "The Clean Power Plan has a lot of support," said Bill Price, a local organizer for the Sierra Club who grew up in the area and whose father worked in the coal mines. Since the shift to power sources like solar and wind create jobs and clean the environment, he said, the Clean Power Plan is "pro-worker, pro-economy and it's pro-environment." 
Some of the speakers marveled at the turnaround on environmental regulation that a change in administrations had wrought. Speaking in favor of repeal, Bill Raney, president of the West Virginia Coal Association said, "I don't think we have ever testified in favor of anything the E.P.A. has ever done." 
Opponents of repeal attending the hearing offered rebuttal. Jim Probst, West Virginia coordinator for Citizens Climate Lobby, said that he was speaking with future generations in mind, and said that it was wrong to blame regulations for coal's woes. "The reality is that the coal industry has been in decline for many years." 
Liz Perera, climate policy director of the Sierra Club, testified that the Trump administration had "inappropriately cooked the books" on the costs and benefits of the plan. "This is about the kind of world we will leave for our children," she said. 
Stanley Sturgill, a retired Kentucky coal miner who has become an activist, started out at 3 a.m. to get to the hearing. Now 71 and afflicted with black lung and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, he called repealing the plan "immoral and indefensible." He repeated a comment he gave in support of the plan in 2014: "We're dying, literally dying, for you to help us." 
Coal-fired power plants are a major source of greenhouse gases: they produce about one-third of the nation's carbon dioxide emissions. 
This is the sole hearing scheduled on repealing the plan; the Obama administration held four such hearings in creating it. A spokesman for the E.P.A. said, "We continue to assess the needs for additional hearings, and in the meantime encourage all stakeholders to submit their comments to the public docket, which will be open until January 16, 2018." 
Follow @NYTClimate on Twitter 
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 

Photograph 
Stanley Sturgill, a Retired Miner Who Is Now an Activist, Spoke in Favor of Obama-Era Climate Rules. (Photograph by Mark E. Trent for the New York Times) 
Copyright New York Times Company Nov 29, 2017 
Subject 	Regulation; 
Attorneys general; 
Emissions; 

Presidents; 
Coal-fired power plants; 
Public hearings; 
Environmental policy; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Climate change; 
Litigation; 

Greenhouse gases; 
Clean technology; 

Environmental regulations; 

Regulatory reform; 
Renewable resources 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Obama, Barack 
Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 

NAICS: 924110; 

Name: Sierra Club NAICS: 813312 
Title 	In Heart of Coal Country, Hearing on the Repeal of Obama's Clean Power Plan: [National Desk] 
Author 	Schwartz, John 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.12 
Publication year 	2017 
Publication date 	Nov 29, 2017 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	General Interest Periodicals--United States 
ISSN 	03624331 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1969598287  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1969598287?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Nov 29, 2017  
Last updated  2017-11-29  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 197 of 236 


Where a Reporter Fears to Tread: [National Desk] 
Harmon, Amy.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]29 Nov 2017: A.2. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Where+a+Reporter+Fears+to+Tread%3A+%5BNational+Desk%5D&title=New+Y 11-29&volume=&issue=&spage=A.2&au=Harmon%2C+Amy&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
On Nov. 7, our national correspondent Amy Harmon returned to southeastern Ohio to participate in a discussion at Ohio University about teaching science in an era of public mistrust. Joining the conversation were Sami Kahn, assistant professor of science education; Dr. Bernhard Debatin, professor for multimedia policy; James Sutter, a science teacher at Wellston High School; and Katey King, Brogan Speraw and Dalton Teasley, former Wellston High School students. 
As a national correspondent, you learn to do stories and move on, no matter how much you might like to stay. It's the nature of the job: There is always another story waiting 
to be told. 
But recently, my editor asked me and several other correspondents to return, for public forums, to the areas of the country from where we had reported on the nation's political 
divide. The idea was that it would be to the benefit of our journalism, and our readers, for us to continue in person the sometimes fraught conversations our articles had helped 
to stoke. 

I cannot say that I embarked on this assignment without some trepidation. 

My article focused on a clash between a high school science teacher and his students, in a town in southeastern Ohio coal country, over the broad scientific consensus that 
human activities are causing dangerous warming to the planet. Readers had voiced strong, and diverging, opinions on both the subject and my treatment of it. 
Some were the kind I had hoped for: "Of course it's exasperating to see such strong scientific evidence rejected," read a comment about a student named Gwen Beatty. "But 

Gwen's sincerity and intelligence, and her real distress, come through clearly, as do the terrible economic pressures on the people of Wellston." 

Others, though, excoriated the students, labeling them "stupid," among other things. "Folks," wrote one horrified reader, pushing back after a string of such comments on The 
Times's Facebook page, "you're talking about minors." 
Some readers, especially in southeastern Ohio itself, had objected to the way I'd chosen to weave in information about the region's socioeconomic troubles, such as the opioid 

epidemic and the high poverty rate. "What was gained by mentioning a child has to borrow lunch money?" one tweeted. "What did that add to the article?" 

I had responded to some of these threads on social media last spring, but the prospect of doing so face to face was more unnerving. And who was to say that this was a 
conversation anyone in the area wanted to have? 
But it seemed I would not get out of it so easily. 
This fall, students in the education school at Ohio University in Athens, about 30 miles from Wellston, had been assigned by their professor, Sami Kahn, to read my article. And 

Dr. Kahn had invited James Sutter, the teacher I profiled, to speak at an event that was soon expanded to include me and some of the Wellston students I interviewed. 
The visit, as anticipated, had its tense moments. 
In a deep-red region, Athens is a liberal college town, and some community members took issue with what they saw as my kid-glove approach to climate skepticism among 

young Republicans (even those not yet of voting age). 
"Write about how they're being lied to," one social science professor instructed me at the reception. "That's what changes the minds of my students." 
"We're past debating climate change," an environmental activist insisted. 
The Wellston students spoke openly of feeling betrayed by my mention of drugs, poverty and low enrollment in four-year colleges in an article I had told them would be about 

climate education. 
"In our town, we are just kind of trying to survive," said Katey King, now a freshman at the university. "We have a lot of pride." 
For my part, I was glad we were discussing the often-ignored connection between attitudes toward climate change and economic inequality. And even as I defended my effort to 

explain to readers why climate change might not be a priority in Wellston, I knew I would be more mindful in the future of how certain facts might be misinterpreted as 

judgment. 
Tense moments aside, much of our conversation focused on Mr. Sutter's remarkable teaching. Like many of the students I met in Wellston, those on the panel had, in his 
classroom, come to consider climate change a serious problem, and to recognize human activities as its primary driver. 

There may be emotional safety in talking about your story at a physical remove from where it unfolded. But it is far more enlightening -- and personally rewarding -- to be there. 
A few days after I had returned from Athens, I received a direct message on Twitter from Jonathan Caldwell, a senior at Ohio University in St. Clairsville. "I appreciate your work," he wrote. His education professor, Jacqueline Yahn, had apparently also distributed my article, which he had used for a class presentation on "how we approach ideas like climate change (or any other topic that can be seen as controversial) and what responsibilities I believe we have as teachers." 
At first I thought Mr. Caldwell, who grew up in eastern Ohio and is hoping to be the first in his family to graduate from college, was simply writing to make the connection. 
Then, a few days later, came the invitation: "We're a small campus here at Eastern. But we're really close here at the campus and I know we would love to learn from you & I think we could share a lot with you as well." 
I haven't discussed it with my editor yet. But maybe sometime soon I'll be heading back once again to Ohio. 
To watch a video of the Nov. 7 Athens, Oh io , panel discussion , "Teaching, Learning and Reporting About Science in Times of Public Mistrust," click here. Thanks to all the Ohioans who showed up, especially the crew that came from Wellston. And for those who did not make the drive: The evening ended with a round of applause for your town. 
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 

Photograph 
James Sutter, Left, a Science Teacher, and Amy Harmon, a Times Reporter, at Ohio University. (Photograph by Daniel Rogerson, Ohio University) 
Copyright New York Times Company Nov 29, 2017 
Subject 	Teaching; 
Students; 
Climate change; 
Journalism; 
Reporters; 

Science education 


Location 	United States--US 
Company / organization 	Name: Ohio University 

NAICS: 611310 


Title 	Where a Reporter Fears to Tread: [National Desk] 
Author 	Harmon, Amy 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.2 
Publication year 	2017 
Publication date 	Nov 29, 2017 
column 	The Times in Person 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	General Interest Periodicals--United States 
ISSN 	03624331 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1969597229  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1969597229?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Nov 29, 2017  
Last updated  2017-11-29  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 198 of 236 


Evolving Tactics Helping Creationists Put Science on Trial in the Classroom: [National Desk] 
Haberman, Clyde.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]20 Nov 2017: A.13. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Evolving+Tactics+Helping+Creationists+Put+Science+on+Trial+in+the+Classroo 11-20&volume=&issue=&spage=A.13&au=Haberman%2C+Clyde&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
"Evolution Mama" is a sassy song dating back many decades, probably best played on a banjo, maybe with a kazoo in the background. "Evolution mama," it goes, "don't you make a monkey out of me." That certainly captures the sentiments of religious groups and like-minded politicians who believe Charles Darwin was talking through his hat and there is no way that humans are descended from lower animals. 
Darwinism has long been under siege in parts of the United States, even if its critics have practiced their own form of evolution, adapting their arguments to accommodate altered legal circumstances. This installment of Retro Report shows the enduring strength of the forces that embrace the biblical account of Creation or reasonable facsimiles of it. For some of them, the rejection of broad scientific consensus extends to issues like climate change and stem-cell research. 
If anything, science skeptics, like the Seattle-based Discovery Institute, may feel emboldened in the era of President Trump, who shares their doubts on some matters and has acted on them. Last month, for instance, Mr. Trump nominated a coal lobbyist as deputy administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. To be his senior White House adviser on environmental policy, he chose a Texas official who has described global warming as "exaggerated nonsense." 
Retro Report, a series of video documentaries examining major news stories of the past and their continuing relevance, looks at the granddaddy of anti-evolution cases: the so-called Scopes Monkey Trial, held in 1925 in the buckle of the Bible Belt. John T. Scopes, a high school substitute teacher, was charged in Dayton, Tenn., with violating a state law that prohibited the teaching of human evolution in state-funded schools. The trial was epic, with two titans going against each other: William Jennings Bryan for the prosecution and Clarence Darrow for the defense. For all the courtroom fireworks, the outcome was never in doubt. Mr. Scopes was swiftly found guilty and fined $100 (equivalent to about $1,400 today). 
His conviction was overturned on a technicality. And, in time, the law that he broke was struck down, with courts casting it as religious in nature and thus a violation of the First Amendment's proscription against "an establishment of religion." 
The anti-evolution spirit, however, never died. Creationism -- a belief that God brought about the universe pretty much along the lines set forth in the Book of Genesis -- thrived in school curriculums in some states. But that idea also failed to pass judicial muster. The Supreme Court concluded in 1987 that requiring it to be taught in public schools as if it were a science ran afoul of the establishment clause. 
A similar fate befell a creationist stepchild, intelligent design, which holds that the universe is so intricate, so complex, that it has to be the handiwork of a master architect. While God is not explicitly identified as the designer, the implication is hard to miss. In a pivotal case, Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District, a federal judge in Pennsylvania ruled in 2005 that introducing intelligent design in biology classes as an alternative to evolution unconstitutionally advanced "a particular version of Christianity." At heart, the judge said, intelligent design was "creationism relabeled." 
And so, once more, the anti-Darwinists were forced to evolve. What emerged were state laws with descriptions like the "science education act" and the "academic freedom act." One of the earliest and most successful of these endeavors, the Louisiana Science Education Act of 2008, carried echoes of a "wedge strategy" advocated by the Discovery Institute -- a step-by-step program to "reverse the stifling dominance of the materialist worldview and to replace it with a science consonant with Christian and theistic convictions." 
The Louisiana law permits public schoolteachers to use materials critical of established scientific thought, with "evolution, the origins of life, global warming and human cloning" singled out as targets. No blatant advocacy of creationism or intelligent design is authorized. But those concepts make their way into classrooms all the same, as a means of fostering "critical thinking skills, logical analysis, and open and objective discussion of scientific theories." 
In other words, it's O.K. in Louisiana for schools to, as some put it, "teach the controversy." 
"Often the theories that are presented as solid are not as solid as they're presented," Stephen Meyer, director of the Discovery Institute's Center for Science and Culture, told Retro Report. 
Georgia Purdom, a molecular geneticist who is also a creationist, offered much the same view. "I am a scientist, and I have looked at the science, and I see that it confirms God's word," Dr. Purdom said. "But I would also then like to be able to teach evolution, what the evolutionists believe, and then the problems with that. Because there can only be one truth. They both cannot be true." 
As more mainstream scientists see it, Louisiana has disingenuously slipped creationism into schools through a back door (with perhaps an added advantage of being able to cast the law's opponents as nothing more than intellectually intolerant of countervailing thought). There is another concern, said Kenneth R. Miller, a molecular biologist at Brown University. A new generation, he said, is being taught that "the scientific method and the scientific community is not to be trusted." 
Thus far, the Louisiana law is proving to be bulletproof. No court case has been brought against it, even if Dr. Miller says somewhat dismissively that this is only because "the First Amendment protects you against imposition of religious ideas in the public schools -- it doesn't protect you against the introduction of stupid ideas." 
And Louisiana does not stand alone. Tennessee, home of the Scopes trial, passed a comparable law in 2012. Efforts along the same line have been tried in other states, including Mississippi, Alabama, Indiana, South Dakota, Missouri, Florida and Oklahoma. 
Those legislative moves, in the main, have had limited success. But given the prevailing political climate, the anti-evolution camp may have reason to believe that the wind is at its back and more triumphs lie ahead. If it wishes, it could borrow another line from that old song. This one says, "Evolution mama, don't you think you got me up a tree." 
The video with this article is part of a documentary series presented by The New York Times. The video project was started with a grant from Christopher Buck. Retro Report, led by Kyra Darnton, is a nonprofit video news organization that aims to provide a thoughtful counterweight to today's 24/7 news cycle. Previous episodes are at nytimes.com/retroreport. To suggest ideas for future reports, email retroreport@nytimes.com. 
A video documentary accompanying this essay is at nytimes.com/us 
Copyright New York Times Company Nov 20, 2017 
Subject 	Public schools; 
Evolution; 

Science education; 

Christianity; 

Trials; 

Creationism; 
Religion; 

Documentary films; 
Intelligent design; 
Climate change; 
State laws; 
Judges & magistrates; 

School districts; 

Classrooms 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Darrow, Clarence; Bryan, William Jennings (1860-1925) 
Company / organization 	Name: Discovery Institute 

NAICS: 541711; 

Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA NAICS: 924110 
Title 	Evolving Tactics Helping Creationists Put Science on Trial in the Classroom: [National Desk] 
Author 	Haberman, Clyde 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.13 
Publication year 	2017 
Publication date 	Nov 20, 2017 
column 	Retro Report 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	General Interest Periodicals--United States 
ISSN 	03624331 
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1965998335  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1965998335?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Nov 20, 2017  
Last updated  2019-04-02  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 199 of 236 


Norway, Europe's Top Oil Producer, Considers Divesting From Oil Shares: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Krauss, Clifford.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]17 Nov 2017: B.3. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Norway%2C+Europe%27s+Top+Oil+Producer%2C+Considers+Divesting+From+ 11-17&volume=&issue=&spage=B.3&au=Krauss%2C+Clifford&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Norway's $1 trillion sovereign wealth fund is considering a divestment of holdings in international petroleum companies, a sign that even Europe's dominant producer does not have full confidence in oil's future. 
The recommendation on Thursday by the Norwegian Central Bank, which manages the fund, is potentially the biggest advance yet for a global fossil-fuel divestment campaign that has been promoted on college campuses and by environmental activists. 
It could also be a setback for the proposed initial public offering of the Saudi national oil company, known as Aramco, since the Norwegian sovereign wealth fund, the world's largest, would be a potentially large investor. The public offering depends on high oil prices, while the move by the Norwegian bank suggested uncertainty about the future demand for oil. 
"It's very significant symbolically because it sends a signal that even the people who make money from oil and gas are coming up with divestment plans," said Michael Webber, deputy director of the Energy Institute at the University of Texas at Austin. "The Norwegian view is that oil has had a good run and will have a good run for a couple of decades but it's not the only future that is out there." 
With roughly $35 billion invested in oil companies, the Norwegian sovereign wealth fund is a large investor in Exxon Mobil, Royal Dutch Shell, Total, Chevron and Norway's own oil giant, Statoil. Statoil has begun to diversify its holdings by building large offshore wind-energy projects. 
Although it is Europe's top oil producer, Norway is also a leader in the movement to control climate change. With hefty incentives, roughly 40 percent of cars bought in Norway last year were electric, and the government plans to phase out diesel- and gasoline-fueled cars in the next decade. 
The Norwegian Central Bank said in a letter to the Finance Ministry that the nation needed to diversify its investments. The fund, with Parliament's approval, decided in 2015 to begin selling off its investments in mining companies and utilities that depend on burning coal. 
The potential Norwegian divestment of oil is not expected to happen until late 2018 at the soonest. 
But on a day when oil prices were down moderately and most global stock markets soared, shares of several large oil companies were down by up to 1 percent. 
"It sends a signal that others could follow, and if this becomes a growing movement it could have a material impact," said Brian M. Youngberg, senior energy analyst at Edward Jones Investments. "It shows the global environmental movement continues to gain steam." 
Environmentalists praised the potential divestment as historically important. 
"With Norway's move, the campaign to divest from dirty fuels will graduate from environmental groups and small businesses like Ben & Jerry's and colleges to the big time," said Dan Becker, director of the Safe Climate Campaign, based in Washington. "Norway's move will fuel divestment even more because Norway is a major oil country." 
Religious institutions, pension funds and other financial institutions in more than 70 countries controlling more than $5 trillion in assets have already committed to dropping some of their fossil-fuel holdings in recent years. The movement gained a major push from the 2015 Paris climate agreement, which set targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. 
Another movement by investors has pressured European and American oil companies to disclose how climate change and future carbon taxes might affect the sustainability of their reserves, arguing that there is a risk to investors that many resources will need to be left in the ground. 
The future of oil will also be dependent on demand and prices. There is a hot debate among analysts about exactly when demand for oil will peak. Some note that with the economies of China and other developing countries growing, there are decades more of growth for oil. BP has projected that the global auto fleet will double by 2035 to 1.8 billion vehicles. 
But others say the electric cars and more efficient internal combustion engines will dominate transportation in the future, and deeply depress demand in gasoline and diesel. Several major car companies are investing in hydrogen fuel-cell vehicles, and Exxon Mobil is investing in advanced biofuels. 
Royal Dutch Shell has projected that gasoline demand is likely to peak by the 2030s. Chevron's departing chief executive, John Watson, recently said he was confident of demand growth for oil over the next decade or two. 
"There is no sign of peak demand right now," he said. 

Photograph 
A Drilling Platform Operated by Statoil, the Norwegian Oil Giant, in the North Sea. Statoil has Begun to Invest in Alternative Energy. (Photograph by Kristian Helgesen/Bloomberg, Via Getty Images) 
Copyright New York Times Company Nov 17, 2017 
Subject  Central banks; Sovereign wealth funds; Gasoline; Investments; Environmental protection; Divestments; Climate change  
Location  Norway; Europe  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Royal Dutch Shell PLC 213112, 221210, 324110;  
Name: NAICS:  Exxon Mobil Corp 211111, 447110;  
Name: NAICS:  University of Texas 611310  
Title  Norway, Europe's Top Oil Producer, Considers Divesting From Oil Shares: [Business/Financial Desk]  
Author  Krauss, Clifford  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.3  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Nov 17, 2017  
Section  B  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1964997161  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1964997161?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Nov 17, 2017  
Last updated  2017-11-17  

Database Global Newsstream 
document 200 of 236 


Climate Funds, Meant for Poorest, Raise Red Flags: [Foreign Desk] 
Tabuchi, Hiroko.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]17 Nov 2017: A.10. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Climate+Funds%2C+Meant+for+Poorest%2C+Raise+Red+Flags%3A+%5BForei 11-17&volume=&issue=&spage=A.10&au=Tabuchi%2C+Hiroko&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
A landmark pledge seven years ago by the world's richest nations to spend billions to help developing countries tackle climate change seemed like a godsend for Kiribati, the 
Pacific island nation threatened by rising seas. 
The result of that promise was the Green Climate Fund. But Kiribati -- like many of the poorest countries most vulnerable to climate change -- has yet to see any project 
funding. 

Instead, many of the projects that have won early backing were approved despite concerns raised by current and former observers on the fund's board over whether officials 

had done due diligence on projects -- especially on those involving the private sector, which make up half of the approximately $2.6 billion in project financing authorized so far. 
"We raised our objections, but the gavel just came down," said Liane Schalatek, one of two civil society observers on the fund's board and associate director at the Heinrich Böll 
Foundation North America, an environmental group associated with the Greens party in Germany. 

"There's a real lack of transparency," she said. 

The observers took issue, for example, with a proposed project that would hand out $265 million in equity and grants to Geeref Next, a Luxembourg-based investment fund that 
proposed to finance renewable energy or energy efficiency projects in about 30 countries -- with no explicit plan to disclose what those projects would be. 
The fund's 24-member board approved the proposal. 
The board observers have also asked why the fund's finances, set up to back locally owned projects that reach the most vulnerable communities, were going toward private-

sector enterprises led by global investment firms -- like $110 million in loans and grants for solar projects in Kazakhstan led by London-based United Green Energy and the 
investment arm of Kazakhstan's sovereign wealth fund. 
Those concerns also went unaddressed. 
According to funding proposals for the 54 projects approved so far, as well as a record of objections raised by board observers, other projects that have raised red flags include: 

$25 million in equity and grants administered from Mauritius, a corporate tax haven, for off-grid solar power in Rwanda, Kenya and Uganda; 
$50 million in loans and grants to repair a Soviet-era dam in Tajikistan, even though experts have warned that hydropower there is vulnerable to the retreat of the snow melt 
that feeds dams; 

$9 million in loans to a renewable energy project in rural Mongolia that observers worried would be used to power coal mining. 
The Green Climate Fund also faces challenges on the donor front. 
This year, President Trump said the United States would no longer pay into the fund -- a snub that accompanied the Trump administration's decision to withdraw from the Paris 

climate accord. 

The United States had promised to contribute $3 billion -- more than any other country, though less than other donors on a per-capita basis -- of which the Obama 
administration delivered $1 billion. 
Industrialized nations have indeed pledged to generate $100 billion a year by 2020 to help developing countries reduce their greenhouse gas emissions and address the effects 

of climate change. The fund has so far secured $10.3 billion in financing. 

To be sure, the climate fund has also enjoyed some notable successes, including private projects. The off-grid solar projects in Rwanda and Kenya, for example, have been 
praised for their focus on reaching remote communities. 
But the board observers' concerns underscore the challenges facing the fund, now a pillar of the Paris climate pact, as negotiators gather this week at United Nations climate 

talks in Bonn, Germany. 
Critically, the early mix of approvals has meant that less than a tenth of the funding has gone to the kind of projects that make up the fund's mandate: those owned and 
controlled by the poorer nations themselves. 

"There's little enough, as it is, of public funds for climate, and so much of it is going toward sweetening returns for the private sector," said Lidy Nacpil, coordinator of the Asian People's Movement on Debt and Development and another observer on the fund's board. 
The fund's growing pains reflect the competing pressures -- from its donors, from the private sector, and from the countries it is meant to assist. Eager to show taxpayers back home that the fund is being put to work, donor countries have put pressure on the fund to ramp up its disbursements. Similar pressures arise from bank's need to raise private investment to make up for the expected shortfall in contributions from industrialized countries. 
The fund's secretariat did not respond to multiple requests for comment. But in response to some of these criticisms, the bank has adopted a monitoring framework meant to strengthen transparency at the fund. The fund also recently set up an independent evaluation unit to assess the effectiveness of its projects. 
"I hope we can learn, and learn fast, about what works for climate change action," Jyotsna Puri, the head of the new unit, said in an interview posted on the fund's site last month. "Otherwise, just imagine the waste of resources." 
For places like Kiribati, the stakes couldn't be higher. Much of the country, a string of atolls and reef islands that straddles the Equator, lies no higher than six feet above sea level. The prospect of rising seas and more extreme storms threatens "the very existence" of large segments of the population, the government has said. 
Officials in Kiribati have said they desperately need funding for desalination plants to provide safe water for the 110,000 residents of country, where much of the water has become contaminated by seawater intrusion into groundwater. The government is also seeking to elevate land on its main atoll and invest in renewable energy to end the country's almost complete reliance on fossil fuels. 
But with little diplomatic and financial heft, officials have struggled to secure funding. 
"We can't do it alone," the president of Kiribati, Taneti Mamau, said in a video message before the Bonn meeting. "We need the hands of our partners and those who are ready to assist." 
The fund has pledged to improve the quality of its projects. It is also working to improve access for countries applying for smaller projects of less than $10 million. 
"Unfortunately so far, we have not taken the observers' comments into consideration for our decision. That is true," said Omar El-Arini, a member of the climate fund's board. He stressed that his personal views were not representative of the entire board. 
"But we just started. There are competing interests -- from countries, from the private sector, and we are trying to wade through this maze of conflicting interests," he said. "We will get there." 
Kiribati scored a small victory this year when it qualified for a $586,000 grant to help the country prepare a new application to the fund. 
The island nation, however, has also taken some heart-wrenching measures. 
In 2014, Kiribati bought 8 square miles of land in Fiji, more than a thousand miles away, as an insurance policy against the rising oceans. 
Mr. Mamau stressed that migration from Kiribati would be an absolute last resort. 
"The idea is to build Kiribati's resilience," he said. "We don't believe that Kiribati will sink like the Titanic." 
Follow @NYTClimate on Twitter 

Photograph 
Much of Kiribati, Including the Village of Abarao, Lies Less Than Six Feet Above Sea Level. But the Country has Received No Funding From the Green Climate Fund.; an Atoll in Kiribati. Officials There Are Seeking Funding for Desalination Plants As Seawater has Infiltrated Groundwater. (Photographs by Josh Haner/the New York Times) 
Copyright New York Times Company Nov 17, 2017 
Subject 	Alternative energy; 

Funding; 
Private sector; 
Desalination; 
Developing countries--LDCs; 
Renewable resources; 
Climate change 


Location 	Tajikistan; United States--US; Kenya; Germany; Rwanda; Kazakhstan; Mongolia; Uganda 
Title 	Climate Funds, Meant for Poorest, Raise Red Flags: [Foreign Desk] 
Author 	Tabuchi, Hiroko 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.10 
Publication year 	2017 
Publication date 	Nov 17, 2017 
Section 	A 
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1964984920  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1964984920?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Nov 17, 2017  
Last updated  2017-11-17  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 201 of 236 


U.S. Softens Its Hard Line As the World Talks Climate: [Foreign Desk] 
Friedman, Lisa.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]17 Nov 2017: A.10. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=U.S.+Softens+Its+Hard+Line+As+the+World+Talks+Climate%3A+%5BForeign+ 11-17&volume=&issue=&spage=A.10&au=Friedman%2C+Lisa&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Want the latest climate news in your inbox? You can sign up here to receive Climate Fwd:, our new email newsletter. 
BONN, Germany -- The senior American diplomat at the United Nations climate talks here told world leaders Thursday that the United States would remain engaged in global climate change negotiations even as it planned to exit the Paris agreement "at the earliest opportunity." 
Judith G. Garber, a State Department acting undersecretary, gave the first official American remarks to the United Nations climate body since President Trump announced in June that he would abandon the Paris deal. It was a far more conciliatory message than a presentation earlier in the week by White House officials promoting fossil fuels, which drew catcalls and a walkout. 
"President Trump has made clear the U.S. position with respect to the Paris agreement," Ms. Garber said. "Although he has indicated that the United States intends to withdraw at the earliest opportunity, we remain open to the possibility of rejoining at a later date under terms more favorable to the American people." 
Ms. Garber's address made no mention of coal while promising to help other countries "adapt to the impacts of climate change." It was the only mention of climate change in the three-minute presentation, but that was one more than many Trump administration critics had expected. And in contrast to the noisy protests that greeted the White House fossil fuel event, Ms. Garber's speech in a tightly-controlled plenary hall was met with polite applause. 
The Trump administration has sent two sets of officials to the Bonn climate talks, where 195 nations are gathered to seek ways to strengthen the Paris agreement. White House officials, led by George David Banks, Mr. Trump's international energy adviser, have been far more visible, talking to reporters and mingling with environmental activists as well as energy executives. 
But because the Trump administration cannot officially exit the Paris climate agreement until 2020, it also sent a small State Department team to negotiate details of international climate policy, like greater transparency for emissions reporting from China and India. 
Environmentalists here said they found Ms. Garber's message confusing, and a sign of the awkward tightrope that America's diplomats are walking as they work on a deal Mr. Trump has disavowed. 
"The few people in Bonn who were interested in this speech heard a muddled explanation of Trump's dangerously incoherent climate policy," said John Coequyt, global climate policy director at the Sierra Club. 
Todd D. Stern, the former State Department climate envoy under President Barack Obama who helped design the Paris agreement, traveled to Bonn to tell his former counterparts that he believed America's absence from the global accord would be short-lived. 
He said his message to other nations was "not to let the retrograde, head-in-the-sand conduct in Washington divert you from your purpose and your course and your commitment. It's too important to let that happen. And I just firmly believe the U.S. will be back in." 
White House officials have declined to say what new and more favorable terms Mr. Trump seeks. Mr. Banks said that was a conversation that Mr. Trump would have to have with other world leaders. He did not indicate when that might occur or if it was on the president's to-do list. 
Mr. Stern said the White House itself was divided on the question of whether or how to find a way back into the accord. "I don't think it's clear who are the key decision makers, or who will be the key decision makers on a road that's three years long," he said. 
In her remarks, Ms. Garber noted that the United States had cut its greenhouse gas emissions 11.5 percent through 2005, thanks to both public policies and private sector innovations in natural gas and solar power. But she pointedly avoided any promises to cut emissions further, as the Obama administration had done under the Paris agreement. 
This week, scientists reported that the pace of emissions reductions in the United States likely slowed in 2017. For the world to meet its climate goals, the country would almost certainly need to accelerate its efforts. 
"The United States will continue to support a balanced approach to climate mitigation, economic development, and energy security that takes into consideration the realities of the global energy mix," Ms. Garber said. 
Follow @NYTClimate on Twitter 
Credit: LISA FRIEDMAN; Brad Plumer contributed reporting. 
Copyright New York Times Company Nov 17, 2017 
Subject  Presidents;  
Paris Agreement;  
Fossil fuels;  
Emissions;  
Environmental policy;  
Climate change  
Location  China; United States--US; India; Germany  
People  Banks, George David; Obama, Barack  
Company / organization  Name: United Nations--UN  
NAICS: 928120  
Title  U.S. Softens Its Hard Line As the World Talks Climate: [Foreign Desk]  
Author  Friedman, Lisa  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.10  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Nov 17, 2017  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1964980686  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1964980686?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Nov 17, 2017  
Last updated  2017-11-17  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 202 of 236 


Coal-Fueled, But China Hews to Goal On Climate: [Foreign Desk] 
Sengupta, Somini.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]15 Nov 2017: A.8. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88-2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Coal­Fueled%2C+But+China+Hews+to+Goal+On+Climate%3A+%5BForeign+Desk%5D&title=New+York+Times&issn=03624331&date=2017-11­15&volume=&issue=&spage=A.8&au=Sengupta%2C+Somini&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
UNITED NATIONS -- Barely a month ago, in a landmark speech to the Communist Party congress, President Xi Jinping of China promised that his country would take a "driving 
seat in international cooperation to respond to climate change." 
But can China really be in the "driving seat" when it is burning so much coal that its carbon emissions are forecast to rise this year? 

It may depend on how the country manages a climate agenda laden with contradictions. 
For one thing, China, the world's most populous country and the largest carbon polluter, is well on track to meet the commitments it made under the Paris climate accord -- the 
global agreement designed to curb the worst effects of climate change -- which the United States has said it is leaving. 

And China didn't use a United Nations climate conference this week in Bonn, Germany, to promote coal, as the United States did, drawing jeers. 
The bar, it turns out, is pretty low. 
Energy specialists who follow China said the higher emissions projections, published this week by the Global Carbon Project, were to be expected. After steadily declining over 

the last three years, they say, China's industrial emissions are projected to rise this year, reflecting how difficult it is for a country of China's size and ambition to wean itself from coal. 
What they are keenly looking at is the country's emissions trend over the next couple of years, and whether China steps up its climate ambitions in the face of American retreat. Experts say China has compelling domestic reasons to get out of coal -- eventually. Chinese leaders face acute domestic political pressure to curb air pollution, and so it's in the government's interest to phase out coal. 
"China's own domestic air quality interest is very much aligned with its climate commitment," said Jiang Lin, a China specialist at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, which conducts research on behalf of the United States Department of Energy. "To reduce air pollution it has to move away from coal. There's no doubt about that. The question is how fast." 
But getting emissions down is not so straightforward, especially for a country of 1.4 billion people. It can be zig-zaggy, with ups and downs year to year, said Alvin Lin, the Beijing-based climate and energy policy director for the Natural Resources Defense Council, a research and advocacy group, and China will most certainly have many more ups and downs. He said he considered this year's projected rise to be an "anomaly," reflecting an uptick in economic growth, a boom in energy-intensive construction projects and sparse rains to feed hydroelectric plants, the country's other main source of power. 
All in all, he said, China is on the right track. 
"In terms of what the government has done to set direction, set targets, set policies, I think they are doing the right thing," Alvin Lin said from the United Nations climate 

conference in Bonn. "We would like to see a straight line down in terms of emissions but as long as you set the right policies and you continue to support those, you will see 
results in the long term, even though year-to-year you might have blips." 
In any event, China's climate agenda is not so straightforward. 
The country is the world's largest coal consumer. Even as it is phasing out coal plants at home, it is building coal plants abroad as part of an ambitious "One Belt, One Road" 

initiative, designed to expand Chinese global influence. At the same time, China has embraced renewables: It is the largest producer of electric cars, and it has proposed to set 
up what would become the world's largest carbon market. 
Li Shuo, of Greenpeace China, said the projected rise in emissions would not affect China's overall trajectory toward slowing emissions at home and stepping up diplomatically. 

"China can continue to play a leading role in the global climate debate, despite this short-term increase of emissions, which is temporary," he said. 
One thing still lost in the fog of global climate negotiations is whether the Chinese leader really wants to be the global leader on climate. In his speech to the Communist Party 
conclave in October, Mr. Xi took a swipe at the United States by criticizing what he called "self-isolation." But he said nothing about how his country would step up to fill the gap. 

Mr. Xi has said only that China will stick to its pledges. But even if every country meets its Paris pledges, the planet is expected to heat up 3 degrees Celsius or more. That would not be enough to stave off the most catastrophic effects of climate change. 
Follow @NYTClimate on Twitter 

Photograph 
Workers Sorting Coal, Above, at a Mine in Datong, China. Left, Floating Solar Panels in a Lake Created by a Mine Collapse in Liulong Village. China's Carbon Emissions Are Forecast to Rise This Year. (Photographs by Greg Baker/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images; Adam Dean for the New York Times) 
Copyright New York Times Company Nov 15, 2017 
Subject  Air pollution; Outdoor air quality; Emissions; Carbon; Climate change; Coal; Political parties; Summit conferences; Pollution control; Environmental policy  
Location  China; United States--US; Germany  
People  Xi Jinping  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory 541711;  
Name: NAICS:  United Nations--UN 928120;  
Name: NAICS:  Natural Resources Defense Council 813312;  
Name: NAICS:  Communist Party-China 813940  
Title  Coal-Fueled, But China Hews to Goal On Climate: [Foreign Desk]  
Author  Sengupta, Somini  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.8  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Nov 15, 2017  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  

ProQuest document ID  1963794017  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1963794017?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Nov 15, 2017  
Last updated  2017-11-15  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 203 of 236 


Fixing the Climate Without Trump: [Op-Ed] 
Bloomberg, Michael R; Brown, Jerry.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]15 Nov 2017: A.23. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Fixing+the+Climate+Without+Trump%3A+%5BOp­Ed%5D&title=New+York+Times&issn=03624331&date=2017-11­15&volume=&issue=&spage=A.23&au=Bloomberg%2C+Michael+R%3BBrown%2C+Jerry&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
World leaders have been meeting in Bonn, Germany, since last week to discuss carrying out the 2015 Paris climate agreement. Sadly, though not unexpectedly, the White House and federal agencies have largely been absent from the negotiating table. But American leaders from state capitols, city halls and businesses across the country have shown up in force, and we have delivered a unified message to the world: American society remains committed to our pledge under the agreement. 
Over the past two months, Americans have experienced or witnessed raging wildfires and devastating storms, from Santa Rosa, Calif., to San Juan, P.R. Warming seas, along with hotter and drier days, make these storms and fires more intense and destructive. Climate change is not a future threat; it is happening now, and we are paying for it in lost lives and billions of dollars in damage. 
The United States has always led the way in confronting global challenges, especially ones that profoundly affect our own country. President Trump's vow to withdraw from the Paris agreement by 2020 was a troubling abdication of that leadership, and it threatened to send a dangerously wrong message: that we are abandoning the pledge we made in Paris to reduce emissions at least 26 percent by 2025. 
Nothing could be further from the truth. Most Americans strongly support the Paris agreement, and thousands of mayors, governors, chief executives and others stepped forward to reaffirm their commitment to it after the president walked away from the accord. Together, these states, cities and businesses constitute more than half of the United States economy and, if they were a separate country, would make up the third-largest economy in the world. 
President Trump's action has had the effect of galvanizing these groups -- and many have taken bold actions in recent months. 
California just extended its landmark cap-and-trade emissions program through 2030, and has adopted incentives that will help put 1.5 million electric and other zero-emission vehicles on the road by 2025. Chicago has proposed an energy rating system for its large buildings to drive down emissions substantially, with $70 million in projected annual savings on utility bills. Companies in a wide variety of industries -- from Bloomberg to Wal-Mart -- have pledged to procure 100 percent of their energy from renewable sources by 2025 or sooner. And broader trends, including falling renewable energy costs and the retirement of additional coal-fired power plants, continue to reduce our reliance on fossil fuels and accelerate the decarbonization of the American economy. 
Even Oklahoma and Texas -- the home states of Scott Pruitt, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, and Rick Perry, the energy secretary, who both oppose the climate accord -- are national leaders in wind power production. Coal is a fading energy source in both states. 
Climate progress has historically been driven from the bottom-up, not the top down from Washington. Though Congress failed to pass a cap-and-trade bill to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in 2009 during the Obama administration, the United States has still reduced emissions faster and farther than any other large nation. 
In fact, we are already almost halfway to reaching our Paris commitment, thanks largely to consumer preferences and market forces. Half the country's coal plants have closed or are being phased out while air quality improves and electricity bills fall for American consumers. 
In the current political climate, however, there is a risk that nonfederal actions will go unrecognized by the global community. To ensure the world sees the continued commitment of the United States to tackling climate change, and the extent to which local governments and businesses are driving progress, we have introduced an initiative called America's Pledge, which will document the progress we are making -- and the bolder actions we must still take -- to meet our Paris commitments. 
This week in Bonn, we released a report detailing existing nonfederal climate initiatives and policies across America. The report also identifies major new opportunities for cities, states and businesses to take climate action without the federal government. 
For instance, more states can opt in to the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, a carbon pricing program involving nine Northeast and Mid-Atlantic states to drive down power plants emissions, or California's independently managed vehicle emissions programs, including its Zero Emission Vehicle Mandate, which nine states have adopted. More cities can adopt greener building codes, policies and programs to reduce electricity waste. 
And more businesses can follow the lead of the 43 American supermarket chains that have committed to reducing their emissions of hydrofluorocarbons, a potent greenhouse gas used in refrigeration. Coca-Cola, PepsiCo, Red Bull and Unilever have installed more than 5.5 million air-conditioning units using HFC-free refrigerants worldwide, with nearly 400,000 of those installed in the United States. 
Together, these actions will strengthen the economy and improve public health, while also helping the United States move faster toward its Paris commitment. Over the next year, we will aggregate and quantify these actions and continue pushing for new efforts to speed up decarbonization. 
The Paris agreement succeeded where previous attempts failed because it solicited nationally determined pledges from nations based on local actions already taking place. For the United States to reach its commitment, much more needs to be done. But the world should know: We are not waiting for Washington. 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 
AuthorAffiliation 
MICHAEL R. BLOOMBERG and JERRY BROWN Michael R. Bloomberg (@MikeBloomberg) is a former mayor of New York, the founder of Bloomberg L.P. and the co-author, with Carl Pope, of "Climate of Hope." Jerry Brown (@JerryBrownGov) is the governor of California. 

Illustration 
Drawing (Drawing by Jared Oriel) 
Copyright New York Times Company Nov 15, 2017 
Subject 	Emissions trading; 

Greenhouse gases; 
Initiatives; 
Coal-fired power plants; 
Outdoor air quality; 
Alternative energy sources; 

Paris Agreement; 

Industrial plant emissions; 

Climate change; 
Politics; 

Political leadership; 
Environmental protection; 
Environmental policy 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Trump, Donald J 
Company / organization 	Name: Trump World 

NAICS: 511120; 

Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA NAICS: 924110 
Title 	Fixing the Climate Without Trump: [Op-Ed] 
Author 	Bloomberg, Michael R; Brown, Jerry 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.23 
Publication year 	2017 
Publication date 	Nov 15, 2017 
column 	Op-Ed Contributors 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	General Interest Periodicals--United States 
ISSN 	03624331 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1963793442  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1963793442?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Nov 15, 2017  
Last updated  2017-11-15  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 204 of 236 



China Sells Trump a Bridge: Commentary 
Friedman, Thomas L.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]15 Nov 2017: A.23. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=China+Sells+Trump+a+Bridge%3A+Commentary&title=New+York+Times&iss 11-15&volume=&issue=&spage=A.23&au=Friedman%2C+Thomas+L&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
There is a saying -- "When you don't know where you're going, any road will get you there" -- and it perfectly sums up the contrast between China's President Xi Jinping and President Trump. 
Xi has been brilliant at playing Trump, plying him with flattery and short-term trade concessions and deflecting him from the real structural trade imbalances with China. All along, Xi keeps his eye on the long-term prize of making China great again. Trump, meanwhile, touts every minor victory as historic and proceeds down any road that will give him a quick sugar high. 
Trump literally has no idea what he's doing and has no integrated strategy -- because, unlike Xi, Trump's given no thought to the big questions every effective leader starts his day with: "What world am I living in? What are the biggest trends in this world? And how do I align my country so more of my citizens get the most out of these trends and cushion the worst?" 
What world are we in? One in which we're going through three "climate changes" at once. 
We're going through a change in the actual climate: Destructive weather events and the degradation of ecosystems are steadily accelerating. 
We're going through a change in the "climate" of globalization: from an interconnected world to an interdependent one; from a world of walls, where you build your wealth by hoarding resources, to a world of webs, where you thrive by connecting your citizens to the most flows of ideas, trade, innovation and education. 
And, finally, we're going through a change in the "climate" of technology and work: Machines are acquiring all five senses, and with big data and artificial intelligence, every company can now analyze, optimize, prophesize, customize, digitize and automatize more and more jobs, products and services. And those companies that don't will wither. 
So how's China responding? To deal with the change in the climate, it's massively investing in clean power and electric vehicles -- because its own people won't be able to breathe otherwise and because it knows that in a world that will add another one billion people by around 2030, clean power and transportation and energy efficiency will be the next great global industry, or nobody anywhere will breathe. 
In response to a more interdependent world, China is deepening its trade ties to all the fast-growing Asian markets around it through its "One Belt, One Road" project and its Asian Development Bank, while tightly controlling its own market. I call it "globalization for me but not for you." 
Because while China hails globalization, it imposes a 25 percent tariff on imported cars (while America imposes only 2.5 percent) and 50-50 joint ventures and technology transfers for big companies that want to gain access to China's giant market. But China gets away with it. 
In technology, China has embarked on a plan called "Made in China 2025" that's plowing government funds and research into commercializing 10 strategic industries while creating regulations and swiping intellectual property from abroad to make them all grow faster. These industries include electric vehicles, new materials, artificial intelligence, integrated circuits, biopharmacy, quantum computing, 5G mobile communications, and robotics. 
And Trump? On the change in the climate, he's promoting coal over clean energy, like wind and solar, and has appointed climate-change deniers to all of his key environmental posts. While China is run by engineers, Trump doesn't even have a science adviser. He's refused to fill the White House Office of Science and Technology, which, as Newsweek reported, "has been without a boss for the longest stretch since its establishment in 1976." 
On globalization, Trump tore up the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) deal, which would have put him at the helm of a 12-nation Pacific trading bloc (without China), built on U.S. interests and values, and would have eliminated as many as 18,000 tariffs on U.S. exports to countries that, together with the U.S., control 40 percent of global G.D.P. And then he went to China and praised Beijing for beating us at our own game! Well, Donald, when you unilaterally disarm, that tends to happen. 
By the way, the 11 other TPP nations are now trying to create their own free-trade zone -- without the U.S. So after decades of America trying to push all their markets open, they're going to open without us. Nice going, Mr. President, China thanks you, because these countries will be much more vulnerable to Chinese economic pressure with our presence diminished. 
On the change of the climate of technology, Trump is pushing a tax bill that is based on no analysis of emerging technologies and how we might reform our tax laws to incentivize more investment in them. Actually, the bill would eliminate the $7,500 tax credit for electric cars; shrink the tax credits vital for enabling wind projects; and impose a tax on the endowments of our wealthiest colleges -- i.e., our science and engineering treasures -- endowments that colleges use to fund research and extend scholarships for the neediest students. 
"This will be wounding to one of America's gems," its institutions of higher education, Drew Faust, the president of Harvard, said to me. And it's basically being done to cut taxes for the wealthy. 
Moreover, at a time when China's roads and rails increasingly look like the Jetsons' and ours increasingly look like the Flintstones', the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials complained in a Nov. 9 letter to House leaders that their draft tax bill -- in order to raise more money for corporate tax cuts -- "makes significant changes to some of the federally supported financing mechanisms used for transportation" -- specifically the "proposed termination of tax-exempt private activity bonds (PABs)," which serve "as an important infrastructure financing tool that attracts private sector investment to ... large transportation projects across the country." 
So the Chinese are focused on the giant winds of change, and Trump is betting on his gut and a grab bag of tax cuts based on no take on the world, other than dubious trickle-down economics. No surprise. When you don't know where you're going any tax cut will get you there, any replacement for Obamacare will get you there, any wall will get you there, any trade concession will get you there. 
Personally, I am not persuaded China's top-down industrial policy will make China great in the end; it has created huge domestic debt challenges related to its state-owned industries and real estate bubbles. In fact, I'm certain our economic system is better than theirs -- in theory. 
But China, with its ability to focus, is getting 90 percent out of its inferior system, and it has brought China a long way fast. And we, with too little focus, are getting 50 percent out of our superior system. If that persists, it will impact the balance of power. 
Now you know why the Chinese were so happy to throw a bash for Trump in Beijing. 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 
Copyright New York Times Company Nov 15, 2017 
Subject 	Transportation planning; 
Presidents; 
US exports; 

Globalization; 
Endowment; 
Trends; 
Artificial intelligence; 

Tax cuts; 

Electric vehicles; 
Roads & highways; 

International trade; 
Politics; 

Balance of trade; 

International relations-US; 

Foreign policy 


Location 	United States--US; China 
People 	Trump, Donald J; Xi Jinping 
Company / organization 	Name: Asian Development Bank 

NAICS: 522110, 523120, 928120 


Title 	China Sells Trump a Bridge: Commentary 
Author 	Friedman, Thomas L 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.23 
Publication year 	2017 
Publication date 	Nov 15, 2017 
column 	Op-Ed Columnist 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1963793128  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1963793128?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Nov 15, 2017  
Last updated  2017-11-15  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 205 of 236 


Once Stalled, Emissions Of Carbon Are Rising: [Foreign Desk] 
Plumer, Brad.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]14 Nov 2017: A.9. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Once+Stalled%2C+Emissions+Of+Carbon+Are+Rising%3A+%5BForeign+Desk% 11-14&volume=&issue=&spage=A.9&au=Plumer%2C+Brad&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
BONN, Germany -- Industrial emissions of carbon dioxide are projected to rise to record highs in 2017 after a three-year plateau, scientists said Monday. It's a sign that the world is still far from achieving its goals to limit global warming. 
Global emissions from fossil fuels and industry are on track to increase roughly 2 percent over last year's levels, driven in part by a rebound in coal use in China, the world's largest emitter. While dozens of nations, including the United States, have been reducing their emissions in recent years, those declines have so far been offset by rising pollution from developing countries. 
The new figures, reported by the Global Carbon Project and published in three scientific journals, arrived in the middle of an international conference here in Bonn, Germany, where the countries that signed the 2015 Paris agreement are discussing how to strengthen their efforts to stave off drastic climate change. 
Under the Paris deal, the world's nations vowed to hold the rise in global temperatures since the start of the industrial revolution to "well below" 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit). For that to happen, scientists say, global emissions from power plants, factories, cars and trucks, as well as those from land use change and deforestation, would need to peak in the next few years and then decline swiftly to zero before the end of the century. 
"These numbers suggest we still don't have sufficient policies in place to prevent global emissions from rising, let alone to force them downward," said Glen Peters, a researcher at the Center for International Climate Research in Norway, who helped compile the data. 
For much of the 21st century, global carbon dioxide emissions increased at a rate of more than 2 percent per year, as rapidly industrializing countries like China and India built hundreds of coal plants and put millions of new cars on the road. The link between economic development and emissions growth seemed inextricable. 
Then came an unexpected twist: From 2014 to 2016, industrial emissions barely grew at all, even as the global economy continued to expand. Some observers wondered if the sharp cost reductions in renewable energy, combined with the growing push to tackle climate change in the United States, Europe and China, had fundamentally altered the world's carbon trajectory. 
This year's rebound in emissions suggests that it's too soon to celebrate. 
China, which accounts for more than one-quarter of the world's industrial greenhouse gases, still wields heavy influence over global trends. In recent years, China's coal use had begun tapering off as industrial growth slowed and the country began transitioning to a service-oriented economy. Officials in Beijing have vowed to clean up air pollution in cities, cancel plans for new coal plants and invest heavily in cleaner wind, solar and nuclear power. 
But, after a brief dip last year, China's emissions are projected to rise approximately 3.5 percent this year. Local governments invested heavily in infrastructure and construction projects to stimulate growth, while unfavorable rainfall patterns have reduced output from the nation's hydropower dams, said Lauri Myllyvirta, who analyzes China's energy trends for Greenpeace. 
Under the Paris agreement, China has pledged that its overall emissions will peak by 2030. But the precise timing of that peak remains uncertain. Mr. Peters added that China's emissions growth appeared to be slowing by the end of 2017, and this year's spike could prove short-lived. 
India, a relatively poor but fast-growing country, also remains a wild card. The country's carbon dioxide emissions increased just 2 percent this year, in contrast to the 6 percent annual growth seen over the last decade, in part because of economic fluctuations that may prove temporary. One big question going forward is whether India can industrialize without using the same amount of coal that China did in the 2000s. 
On the flip side, the Global Carbon Project found, at least 21 countries have managed to cut their emissions significantly while growing their economies over the past decade, including the United States, Britain, France, Germany and Sweden. These countries have steadily transitioned away from energy-intensive industries -- or have outsourced manufacturing to countries like China -- while increasing investments in efficiency and cleaner energy. 
But there are signs that emissions reductions in these wealthier countries have decelerated of late. In the United States, fossil-fuel emissions are projected to fall by approximately 0.4 percent this year, compared to an average decline of 1.2 percent per year over the past decade. 
Much of the fall in American emissions has come as increasing supplies of natural gas, wind and solar power have driven hundreds of coal plants into retirement. But emissions from sectors like transportation and buildings remain stubbornly high, and with the Trump administration dismantling domestic climate policies, it is unclear how far the country's emissions will continue to fall in the coming years. 
Similarly, the European Union's emissions are expected to fall just 0.2 percent this year, a smaller decrease than the 2.2 percent average annual decline of the previous decade. 
In an editorial published in Environmental Research Letters, researchers affiliated with the Global Carbon Project warned that global emissions could rise again in 2018 without stronger decarbonization efforts. 
"Every year that goes by without an emissions peak," Mr. Peters said, makes the job of cutting greenhouse gases quickly enough to stabilize global warming this century "that much harder." 
Follow @NYTClimate on Twitter 

Illustration 
CHARTS (Source: Global Carbon Project (2017)) (CHARTS BY NADJA POPOVICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 
Copyright New York Times Company Nov 14, 2017 
Subject 	Greenhouse gases; 
Trends; 
Emissions; 

Carbon dioxide; 
Coal-fired power plants; 
Paris Agreement; 

Environmental policy; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Climate change; 
Nuclear power plants; 

International; 
Air pollution; 

Outdoor air quality; 
Pollution control 


Title 	Once Stalled, Emissions Of Carbon Are Rising: [Foreign Desk] 
Author 	Plumer, Brad 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.9 
Publication year 	2017 
Publication date 	Nov 14, 2017 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	General Interest Periodicals--United States 
ISSN 	03624331 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	News 
ProQuest document ID 	1963333614 
Document URL 	https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1963333614?accountid=14902 
Copyright 	Copyright New York Times Company Nov 14, 2017 
Last updated 	2017-11-15 
Database Global Newsstream 
document 206 of 236 


On Future of Energy, From U.S. 'Renaissance' to the Rise of Renewables: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Reed, Stanley.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]14 Nov 2017: B.5. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=On+Future+of+Energy%2C+From+U.S.+%27Renaissance%27+to+the+Rise+of 11-14&volume=&issue=&spage=B.5&au=Reed%2C+Stanley&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
LONDON -- From the rise of renewable power to the transformation of the United States into a heavyweight producer of oil and gas, the global energy market, normally slow to 
evolve, is going through major upheaval. 
That is the assessment of Fatih Birol, the executive director of the International Energy Agency, the organization based in Paris that is publishing its annual World Energy 
Outlook on Tuesday. 

The report does not make for easy bedtime reading: It is 763 pages long and stuffed with data-laden charts and tables. 
Still, the document tries to project current trends as far out as 2040, and sees an industry at the nexus of various powerful trends. 
The United States, for instance, has shifted from being an energy-dependent importer to a new role as one of the world's biggest producers of oil and gas, the report says. But 

concerns about greenhouse-gas emissions have clouded the future of fossil fuels. That has encouraged the development of alternatives like solar and wind power, which 
increasingly compete with traditional energy sources. 
Here are some of the most important themes to be found in the report. 
'Energy Renaissance' 

Energy production in the United States will continue to shake up the global oil and natural gas markets, and benefit the country's economy. 
By the 2030s, largely because of production from shale-rock formations, the United States is expected to produce more than 30 million barrels of oil and gas a day, the report 
says. That is 50 percent more than any other country has ever produced in a single year. 

That is a sharp shift from the country's position just a decade ago, when it was a major importer of oil. 

The shale industry has gone through a "trial by fire" in recent years, the report says, referring to a sharp falloff in the price of oil from more than $100 a barrel to as low as 
around $30 a barrel. It is now above $60 a barrel. 
That has transformed the shale sector, and it is "leaner and hungrier" than it was before the price crash, the report says. As a result, it is better able to quickly react to any sign 

of higher prices. That is crucial, as the OPEC oil cartel tries to manage its production levels to bolster prices. 
The Coming Gas Shake-Up 
Changes in how gas is transported and traded are having a major effect, on the energy industry and the environment. 
As the United States increases its gas production -- it is now on track to surpass traditional giants like Qatar and Russia and become the world's largest exporter of liquefied 

natural gas, or L.N.G. -- it is also exporting what the report calls a disruptive "mind-set about how gas markets should operate." 

Gas has historically been sold through long-term contracts pegged to oil prices. That has particularly been the case in Asia, the key market for L.N.G., which is expected to eventually dominate the international gas trade. But as the United States becomes a bigger force in gas markets, it is also helping to break down the existing system. Over time, the report forecasts that gas will be traded 
more widely and freely, potentially pushing down prices and making it more attractive to developing countries like India and China. 
Greater use of gas could bring major environmental benefits. When burned, it produces less of the carbon emissions associated with climate change than coal, and lower levels 

of other pollutants. Mr. Birol said, for instance, said that the decision by power plants in United States to switch from burning coal to gas was largely responsible for holding global emissions roughly steady in recent years (although they appear poised to rise this year). There is still work to be done, the report says. The gas industry needs to address emissions of methane that undermine that type of fuel's environmental claims. "Natural gas is 
a viable exit ramp off of fossil fuels only if it cleans up its methane pollution, which now seriously undercuts its claimed climate advantages," said Fred Krupp, president of the Environmental Defense Fund, an American environmental group. Gains for Renewables 
One factor that may hamper the growth of gas: rapidly falling costs of renewable sources of energy like wind and solar installations. 
The average cost of electricity generated over the life of a solar power plant declined by a stunning 70 percent from 2010 to 2016, according to the agency's report. Wind costs declined by 25 percent in that period. 
The report forecasts that these technologies will only become less expensive over the next 25 years, squeezing fossil fuels, which are widely used to generate electric power. 
Already, power from new wind installations in India and China is cheaper than new gas-fired power plants. A similar situation is developing with solar power, the report says. 
Still, fossil fuels will not vanish anytime soon. It is much more difficult to reduce the use of coal, gas and oil in sectors like transportation and industry than it is in power generation, and the share of fossil fuels used to meet overall energy demand will be 75 percent in 2040, compared with 81 percent last year, according to the agency's main scenario. 
And, the report adds, greenhouse gas levels still appear to be climbing above the threshold required to meet international goals like those established in the 2015 Paris climate accords. 
China's Outsize Role 
Because of China's scale as a consumer of energy, the choices that the country makes will be felt globally, the report says. 
China could overtake the United States as the world's largest consumer of oil as soon as 2030. Of all the new solar and wind power installations to be added through 2040, a third could be in China. In that period, the country could also end up with 320 million electric vehicles, more than a third of the global total. 
"China's choices," the report says, "will play a huge role in determining global trends, and could spark a faster clean energy transition." 

AuthorAffiliation 
STANLEY REED Follow Stanley Reed on Twitter: @stanleyreed12. 

Photograph 
Coal Power in Germany. In Its Annual Report, the International Energy Agency Said the Energy Market Was Going Through an Upheaval. (Photograph by Wolfgang Rattay/Reuters) 
Copyright New York Times Company Nov 14, 2017 
Subject 	Wind power; 

Solar energy; 
Trends; 
Fossil fuels; 
Emissions; 

Electricity distribution; 
Prices; 

Alternative energy sources; 

Energy industry; 

Industrial plant emissions; 

Climate change; 
Coal; 
Power plants; 
Natural gas 


Location 	Russia; United States--US; India; Qatar; China 
People 	Birol, Fatih 
Company / organization 	Name: Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries--OPEC 

NAICS: 813910; 

Name: International Energy Agency NAICS: 541720, 926130, 928120 
Title 	On Future of Energy, From U.S. 'Renaissance' to the Rise of Renewables: [Business/Financial 
Desk] 

Author 	Reed, Stanley 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	B.5 
Publication year 	2017 
Publication date 	Nov 14, 2017 
Section  B  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1963325118  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1963325118?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Nov 14, 2017  
Last updated  2017-11-14  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 207 of 236 


Jeers at Climate Panel as U.S. Defends Coal: [Foreign Desk] 
Friedman, Lisa; Plumer, Brad.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]14 Nov 2017: A.9. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Jeers+at+Climate+Panel+as+U.S.+Defends+Coal%3A+%5BForeign+Desk%5D& 11-14&volume=&issue=&spage=A.9&au=Friedman%2C+Lisa%3BPlumer%2C+Brad&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
BONN, Germany -- The Trump administration made its debut at a United Nations conference on climate change on Monday by giving a full-throated defense of fossil fuels and nuclear energy as answers to driving down global greenhouse gas emissions. 
The forum -- the only official appearance by the United States delegation during the annual two-week climate gathering of nearly 200 nations -- illustrated how sharply the administration's views are at odds with those of many key participants in the climate negotiations. 
George D. Banks, special adviser to President Trump on international energy issues, led a panel with top American energy executives. "Without question, fossil fuels will continue to be used, and we would argue that it's in the global interest to make sure when fossil fuels are used that they be as clean and efficient as possible," Mr. Banks said. "This panel is controversial only if we chose to bury our heads in the sand." 
But even before the Trump team could make its case, the panel was disrupted for more than 10 minutes by scores of chanting and singing demonstrators. The protesters then walked out, leaving the room half empty. Throughout the remainder of the presentation, audience members shouted down and mocked White House officials who attempted to explain away President Trump's stated view that global warming is a hoax. 
It was a rude reception for the Trump administration at the first major United Nations climate conference since President Trump took office and declared that the United States would withdraw from the Paris climate accord signed by more than 195 nations in 2015. Mr. Trump has filled top environmental posts with officials who have expressed doubt about established climate science, including studies published by numerous federal agencies. 
President Trump, who ran on a pledge to revive the American coal industry and whose cabinet includes a number of prominent oil and gas enthusiasts, sent his team here with a clear message -- that extracting and using significant amounts of oil, gas and coal would be a priority of the administration. 
The American presentation came the same day that a new study showed that emissions were rising worldwide after three years on a plateau. Researchers said the emissions growth was driven largely by increased burning of coal in China and India. 
"The question is not if we will continue to use coal, but how," said Holly Krutka, vice president of coal generation and emissions technologies at Peabody Energy. 
Michael R. Bloomberg, the former New York mayor who has spent tens of millions of dollars on a campaign to shut down coal plants, said, "Promoting coal at a climate summit is like promoting tobacco at a cancer summit." Mr. Bloomberg, who is attending part of the Bonn conference, this week donated $50 million to environmental groups to help countries shift away from coal, starting in Europe. 
While many energy experts agree that technologies like carbon capture for coal plants and nuclear power can play a critical role in reducing emissions, the fact that Trump administration officials have played down concern over global warming has triggered deep suspicion about American intentions. 
"Nuclear and carbon capture are critical to reducing CO2 emissions, but going to Bonn to promote the technologies without admitting climate change is a crisis is a logical absurdity," said Josh Freed, director of the clean energy program at the centrist think tank Third Way. 
He said that denying that climate change is a problem while pushing technology to solve it made no sense. "Why would anyone trust or work with you?" he said. 
Several American lawmakers who flew to Germany for the climate change talks denounced the coal discussion. Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington, a Democrat, pre-empted the White House event by striding into the packed conference room and calling it a "sideshow" that the rest of the world would ignore. 
"It's a total distraction," said Andrew Steer, president of the World Resources Institute, an environmental think tank based in Washington. 
Still, Mr. Steer acknowledged, countries throughout Asia and Africa are continuing to build coal plants in their quest to provide energy access for millions living without electricity. "This is not wickedness on the part of these countries that want to get cheaper energy," he said. 
Trump administration officials made a similar point. "We need to lift one billion plus people out of energy poverty," Mr. Banks said. He argued that while renewable energy has a "bright future," only fossil fuels at the moment can deliver enough energy to allow people to rise out of poverty. 
Yet even as the Trump administration pushes for a revival of the coal industry, other countries say they are phasing it out. France has vowed to eliminate coal from its electricity mix by 2022, and Italy by 2025. The United Kingdom and Canada said this week that they, too, would take steps to phase out coal. 
"We're passed the time that we want to be using coal," said Catherine McKenna, Canada's environment minister. "People do not want polluting coal. They do not want it." 
Some developing countries described a more balanced view, however, conceding a need for fossil fuels in the short term while ultimately calling for stronger global action on climate change and a shift toward cleaner forms of energy, including renewables like wind and solar energy. 
Officials from Bangladesh, which still gets most of its electricity from natural gas and has plans to build 25 new coal-fired plants by 2022, said they would welcome the use of technology to improve the efficiency of their coal plants as a steppingstone toward renewable energy. 
"Keep in mind that this is a developing country that has a huge need" for electricity, said Muhammad Azizul Haque, a deputy secretary in Bangladesh's Environment Ministry. "So there has to be balance, it's not just saying, O.K., we'll go for renewables. It's very complicated, because people need energy." 
Pakistan, for its part, has begun importing more liquefied natural gas in order to reduce its reliance on burning coal and oil for electricity, said Tariq Banuri, executive director of Pakistan's Global Change Impact Study Center. Those imports have helped offset 1 percent of the country's emissions. 
Mr. Banuri said that Pakistan's emissions were likely to grow in the coming decades as it lifts itself out of poverty, though the country is also making a big push on renewable energy and could do more if wealthier nations provided more aid to help drive down the cost of wind and solar even further. 
But any nuanced discussions of energy policy were overshadowed by anger at the Trump administration for disengaging from the global community on climate change. 
During a question-and-answer session, audience members pressed American officials to clarify the White House's stance on climate change. 
"Climate mitigation is an important goal of the United States," Mr. Banks said, "but I don't think it's any surprise that economic security and energy security are higher priorities." 
Follow @NYTClimate on Twitter 
Photograph 
Protesters Interrupted the United States Delegation's Presentation, a Defense of Fossil Fuels and Nuclear Energy, at the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Bonn, Germany, On Monday. (Photograph by Philipp Guelland/European Pressphoto Agency) 
Copyright New York Times Company Nov 14, 2017 
Subject 	Nuclear energy; 

Fossil fuels; 
Emissions; 

Greenhouse effect; 
Climate change; 
International relations-US; 

Climate science; 
Coal 


Location 	China; United States--US; India; Germany 
People 	Trump, Donald J 
Company / organization 	Name: United Nations--UN 

NAICS: 928120 


Title 	Jeers at Climate Panel as U.S. Defends Coal: [Foreign Desk] 
Author 	Friedman, Lisa; Plumer, Brad 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.9 
Publication year 	2017 
Publication date 	Nov 14, 2017 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	General Interest Periodicals--United States 
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1963325101  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1963325101?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Nov 14, 2017  
Last updated  2017-11-16  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 208 of 236 



Next in Line to Lead on Climate Change: [Foreign Desk] 
Friedman, Lisa.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]13 Nov 2017: A.6. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Next+in+Line+to+Lead+on+Climate+Change%3A+%5BForeign+Desk%5D&title 11-13&volume=&issue=&spage=A.6&au=Friedman%2C+Lisa&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
BONN, Germany -- When President Trump announced in June that the United States would withdraw from the Paris agreement, America officially ceded its global leadership on climate change. 
The retreat had actually begun months earlier, when climate change disappeared from most government websites and vanished from America's domestic and international agendas. No longer would the United States federal government address climate change at home or raise global warming with ministers and heads of state, as former President Barack Obama and his cabinet routinely did. 
It was a dramatic shift, and it was meant to be. 
"I was elected to represent the citizens of Pittsburgh, not Paris," Mr. Trump said in repudiating the accord. "The Paris climate accord is simply the latest example of Washington entering into an agreement that disadvantages the United States to the exclusive benefit of other countries." 
Since then, others have taken up the climate leadership role. In Europe, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and President Emmanuel Macron of France have vowed that the Paris agreement will flourish without the United States. President Xi Jinping of China and the Canadian prime minister, Justin Trudeau, are promoting their countries as climate change champions. The United Nations secretary general, António Guterres, has pulled nations together to demand deeper emissions cuts. And American governors, mayors and business leaders have forged their own coalition, even taking over the United States pavilion at United Nations climate talks in Bonn, Germany, this week. 
Political analysts say it's not clear whether any of them can replace the United States and the immense diplomatic machinery it commands when engaged on an issue. Here's a look at some of the strengths those leaders bring and the challenges they face. 
1. Xi Jinping 
President Xi Jinping didn't mention Mr. Trump by name at the opening of the Communist Party Congress last month, but his meaning was clear when he declared that China had taken a "driving seat in international cooperation to respond to climate change." He also criticized countries that "retreat into self-isolation." 
Many political analysts say China has indeed moved dramatically on climate change, both to meet its own pledge under the Paris accord to cap carbon emissions by 2030, and to start the world's largest carbon market and swiftly expand the use of electric cars. In recent months, China has hosted ministerial-level meetings on clean energy and joined Canada and the European Union to lead discussions on climate. 
Robert N. Stavins, the director of the environmental economics program at Harvard University who was in China recently to discuss climate change, said he had seen a dramatic shift in tenor among Chinese officials. "Having been engaged very, very closely on climate change with the Obama administration as a co-leader, China appears quite content to move from co-leadership to sole leadership," he said. 
Yet skepticism abounds. While the country is ahead of its Paris target, China still burns more coal than any other country. It also remains to be seen how eager the country will be to allow greater transparency of its own carbon reduction efforts, and many fear it will revert to old demands that it and other developing countries be treated with softer rules. 
2. Justin Trudeau 
For many years Canada was considered a laggard on climate change, leaving the Kyoto Protocol and rarely making an impression at United Nations negotiations. 
That all changed with Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, who cozied up to panda bears and declared "Canada is back" at the Paris global warming talks in 2015. Mr. Trudeau said he was "deeply disappointed" in the United States' decision to withdraw from the Paris deal, declaring "Canada is unwavering in our commitment to fight climate change." 
Since then, he has made good on much of that goal -- doubling his country's contribution to the United Nations science body and sliding into America's place in some international arenas. In September, for example, Canada hosted a meeting of the world's largest economies to discuss climate change. American officials in the George W. Bush administration had created that gathering, originally known as the Major Economies Forum, and it continued under Mr. Obama. The Trump administration essentially abandoned it this year. 
"If the U.S. is going to step back, we're going to step up," Canada's environment minister, Catherine McKenna, said. 
But the country is still struggling to deliver meaningful climate change policy at home, and Mr. Trudeau in recent months has approved bitumen pipelines and liquid natural gas projects. Activists in Canada say if Mr. Trudeau wants to be a true leader, he'll have to reject new fossil fuel infrastructure -- something that will be a steep and perhaps unmeetable challenge. 
3. State and local U.S. leaders 
Perhaps no group has made a bigger splash on the world stage this year than the coalition of United States governors, mayors and businesses who call themselves the We Are Still In coalition. Informally led by Gov. Jerry Brown of California; Michael Bloomberg, the former mayor of New York, and Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington, the group has vowed to uphold the Paris agreement and move ahead with policies to fight climate change. 
When the Trump administration opted not to have a United States pavilion at the Bonn climate talks to highlight American efforts on climate change, Mr. Bloomberg and others agreed to pay for it. Now the American pavilion is hosting a sort of shadow delegation of local leaders who say they are representing a different face of government. "I feel very strongly America should be represented there," Mr. Bloomberg said. 
Yet without participation from more states, particularly those that are fossil-fuel heavy, the United States as a whole will still fall short of the Paris pledge, several analyses have found. 
4. Angela Merkel & Emmanuel Macron 
The Obama administration gets a lot of credit for helping to forge the Paris Agreement, but in reality it was Europe that insisted on the accord in the first place. Since Mr. Trump's withdrawal announcement, European leaders have lost no chance to reassert themselves as the guardians of global climate change ambition. 
Mr. Macron in particular has continued to champion the agreement hammered out in his nation's capital. He has invited American scientists who work on climate change to move to France, and pressed Mr. Trump several times to remain in the deal. In December, France will host a celebration of the Paris Agreement, to which the United States has not yet been invited. Ms. Merkel put climate change at the center of a Group of 20 summit of the world's largest economies in Hamburg, Germany, this year. 
It's not clear how much those leaders' efforts will shift United States policy. As Frank V. Maisano, a partner at the law firm Bracewell who represents energy clients, said recently, "Trump's supporters don't care that Macron is yelling at him. They like that." 
5. António Gutteres, U.N. secretary general 
Mr. Gutteres stepped into his new role in January, and those who work with him say the former prime minister of Portugal jumped in with both feet. Mr. Guterres made sure climate change was highlighted during the United Nations General Assembly, meeting with former Vice President Al Gore and Governor Brown of California to discuss ways the United Nations can promote solutions. He also opened a special session to discuss climate change and its impact on small islands after several devastating hurricanes battered the Caribbean. 
Robert C. Orr, the dean of the University of Maryland's School of Public Policy and a special adviser to Mr. Guterres on climate change, said the United Nations leader was "putting his own stamp" on climate change by hosting a major summit at United Nations headquarters in New York in 2018. 
Follow @NYTClimate on Twitter 

Photograph 
President Trump at a Welcome Ceremony in Beijing Last Thursday with President Xi Jinping. (Photograph by Doug Mills/the New York Times) 
Copyright New York Times Company Nov 13, 2017 
Subject 	Carbon; 
Presidents; 
Paris Agreement; 

Environmental policy; 
Prime ministers; 
Climate change; 
Economic summit conferences; 
Political leadership; 
Global warming 


Location 	United States--US; Canada; Germany; China; California; France; Europe 
People 	Xi Jinping; Trudeau, Justin; Merkel, Angela; Obama, Barack; Gutteres, Antonio; 

Macron, Emmanuel 


Company / organization 	Name: United Nations--UN 

NAICS: 928120 


Title 	Next in Line to Lead on Climate Change: [Foreign Desk] 
Author 	Friedman, Lisa 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.6 
Publication year 	2017 
Publication date 	Nov 13, 2017 
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1963050847  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1963050847?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Nov 13, 2017  
Last updated  2017-11-13  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 209 of 236 


Dueling U.S. Messages at Global Climate Talks: [Foreign Desk] 
Friedman, Lisa.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]12 Nov 2017: A.4. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Dueling+U.S.+Messages+at+Global+Climate+Talks%3A+%5BForeign+Desk%5D 11-12&volume=&issue=&spage=A.4&au=Friedman%2C+Lisa&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
BONN, Germany -- The office of the official American delegation at the international climate talks here is almost always closed. A sign taped to the door informs the curious that entry is for authorized staff members only. 
But there's another group of Americans who are happy to be found. They are gathered in a nearly 27,000-square-foot inflatable tent adorned with American flags and red, white and blue signs proclaiming that states, cities and businesses are "still in" the Paris agreement, despite President Trump's vow to leave it. 
The alternate American pavilion, with its free espresso truck, tins of themed M&M's and wireless internet that tells new users "the U.S. has not gone dark on climate action," has rapidly become a hub of activity at the United Nations global warming negotiations taking place this week. On Saturday, a line of people waited in the rain to hear Michael R. Bloomberg, the former mayor of New York, Gov. Jerry Brown of California and a handful of United States senators, all Democrats, declare that much of America remains committed to reducing planet-warming carbon dioxide emissions. 
"We're in," said Mr. Bloomberg, who put more than $1 million toward funding the pavilion, according to his office. "Just because the federal government has chosen not to participate," he added in an interview, "the American public represented by its elected officials at other levels, by corporations, by universities, we understand that there's a problem and we have to help solve that problem if we're going to have a future in this world." 
The dueling American delegations here mirror a larger division within the United States over climate change. Mr. Trump's decision in June to withdraw from the Paris agreement was popular with his supporters. On Thursday, the State Department and the Interior Department sent high-level political officials to address a conference in Texas sponsored by the Heartland Institute, which rejects the scientific consensus that climate change is occurring and primarily caused by human emissions. Scott Pruitt, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, sent a video message of support. 
"We have tremendous natural resources, from coal to natural gas to oil, to generate electricity in a very cost-effective way," Mr. Pruitt told the conference. "We should celebrate that and be good stewards." 
Yet seven in 10 Americans believe global warming is occurring, according to a Yale University survey, and more than 60 percent say they are at least "somewhat worried" about its effects. 
"There's a debate in the United States between the denialists who pooh-pooh any thought about climate change and the catastrophic dangers it portends, and those who agree with the scientific academies of every country in the world that we're facing an existential threat and we have to do something about it," Governor Brown said Saturday. 
He and Mr. Bloomberg announced that the states, cities and businesses that had pledged to abide by the Paris accord were on track to meet the Obama administration pledge to cut emissions at least 26 percent below 2005 levels by 2025. 
Former Vice President Al Gore, a longtime champion of strong action on climate change, said Mr. Trump represented a minority view on the subject. 
"President Trump does not speak for the country as a whole on the climate issue," Mr. Gore said. "Of course he's our president, of course he has the authority that any president has. But on this issue he is very much out of sync with the country as a whole." 
According to a new report from America's Pledge, a group led by Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. Brown, if the institutions working to meet the Obama targets were a separate country, they would be the third-largest economy in the world after the United States and China. Even as the Trump administration plans to roll back federal climate change policies like the Clean Power Plan, the study found, falling clean technology prices, the low price of natural gas and local carbon-cutting efforts have already cut domestic greenhouse gas emissions by 11.5 percent between 2005 and 2015. 
The official American negotiating team for now is laying low. Career State Department officials are managing the technical negotiations, speaking up on issues like demanding more transparency from developing countries on their progress cutting emissions. 
The Trump administration's true debut will come Monday when a team from the White House hosts a forum promoting fossil fuels and nuclear energy. Speakers will include executives from Peabody Energy, a coal company; NuScale Power, a nuclear engineering firm; and Tellurian, a liquefied natural gas exporter. 
Christiana Figueres, a former United Nations climate envoy who spent her morning with the shadow American delegation, said the Trump administration was sending the wrong message to a conference aimed at decarbonizing the global economy. 
"Coal is to be thanked for all of its hard work and it now deserves to be retired. It is of retirement age and needs to be put in the retirement home," Ms. Figueres said. 
Jim Lakely, a spokesman for the Heartland Institute, said he hoped United Nations climate delegates would also hear his group's message. "Carbon dioxide is not a pollutant and it is not the driver of global warming," he said. "So there is no moral case for restricting the use of fossil fuels, especially because that is vital to raising the quality and length of life of the world's poorest people." 
Diplomats from other countries said they were glad to see governors, mayors and other Americans still committed to the Paris agreement making their presence felt. But they also said they weren't sure which voice of American policy they should believe. 
"Unfortunately there's no connect between those processes," said Dr. Ian Fry, lead negotiator for Tuvalu, a South Pacific island threatened by rising seas. "It's just two worlds, unfortunately." 
Follow @NYTClimate on Twitter 

Photograph 
Former Vice President Al Gore, Above; Gov. Jerry Brown of California, Far Left; and Michael R. Bloomberg, the Former New York Mayor, Called for Action On Global Warming Saturday in Bonn, Germany. (Photographs by Friedemann Vogel/European Pressphoto Agency; Lukas Schulze/Getty Images) 
Copyright New York Times Company Nov 12, 2017 
Subject 	Fossil fuels; 
Emissions; 

Carbon; 
Engineering firms; 
Global warming; 
Presidents; 
Mayors; 
Paris Agreement; 

Environmental policy; 
Retirement; 

Greenhouse effect; 
Climate change; 
Coal; 
Natural gas 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Gore, Albert Jr; Pruitt, Scott 
Company / organization 	Name: United Nations--UN 

NAICS: 928120; 

Name: Yale University NAICS: 611310; 
Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA NAICS: 924110; 
Name: Heartland Institute NAICS: 813940 
Title 	Dueling U.S. Messages at Global Climate Talks: [Foreign Desk] 
Author 	Friedman, Lisa 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.4 
Publication year 	2017 
Publication date 	Nov 12, 2017 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1962705924  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1962705924?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Nov 12, 2017  
Last updated  2017-11-14  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 210 of 236 


Tracking the World's Progress In Meeting Its Climate Goals: [Foreign Desk] 
Plumer, Brad; Popovich, Nadja.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]11 Nov 2017: A.9. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Tracking+the+World%27s+Progress+In+Meeting+Its+Climate+Goals%3A+%5B 11-11&volume=&issue=&spage=A.9&au=Plumer%2C+Brad%3BPopovich%2C+Nadja&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Two years after countries signed a landmark climate agreement in Paris, the world remains far off course from preventing drastic global warming in the decades ahead. This week, the latest round of post-Paris international climate talks are underway in Bonn, Germany, to discuss how to step up efforts. Under the Paris deal, each country put forward a proposal to curtail its greenhouse-gas emissions between now and 2030. But no major industrialized country is currently on track to fulfill its pledge, according to new data from the Climate Action Tracker. Not the European Union. Not Canada. Not Japan. And not the United States, which under President Trump is still planning to leave the Paris agreement by 2020. Worse, even if governments do take further steps to meet their individual pledges, the world will still be on pace to warm well in excess of 2 degrees Celsius over preindustrial levels (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit), the threshold that world leaders vowed to avoid in Paris because they deemed it unacceptably risky. "One year after the Paris Agreement entered into force, we still find ourselves in a situation where we are not doing nearly enough to save hundreds of millions of people from a miserable future," said Erik Solheim, head of the United Nations Environment Program. United States: Political Uncertainty Even before the election of Mr. Trump, the goal set by former President Barack Obama of slashing United States emissions 26 to 28 percent below 2005 levels by 2025 would have been difficult to hit. While emissions from the United States power sector are falling rapidly -- as hundreds of coal plants retire in favor of cleaner natural gas, wind and solar -- other sectors, like transportation and heavy industry, have proven harder to clean up. Mr. Trump, for his part, has disavowed his predecessor's pledge and is dismantling Obama-era regulations designed to push down emissions further, such as the Clean Power Plan. And while states like New York and California are still pursuing their own policies on renewable energy and electric vehicles, they may not prove sufficient to close the gap. For now, analysts think the United States will fall well short of its Paris pledge. That, in turn, could make it harder for future administrations to pursue the deeper emissions cuts by mid-century needed to help keep the world below 2 degrees of global warming. Climate Action Tracker provides a rough estimate of the cuts each country would need to make to avoid 2ºC of warming, with wealthier nations expected to do more. How to divide up the burden remains a major debate within climate talks. European Union: Mixed Results The E.U. may fall slightly short of its promise to cut emissions 40 percent by 2030, compared with 1990 levels. While European officials have created a continent-wide cap-and-trade system to curb emissions from electricity and heavy industry, that regulation leaves out sectors like transportation and agriculture. Progress among individual European countries has been mixed: Over the past two years, Britain has been rapidly phasing out coal power, aided by a national carbon tax and cheap natural gas. But Germany is expected to miss its near-term emissions goals, as recent rapid growth in renewables has been partly offset by the closure of nuclear power plants. China: Finally Peaking? Outside experts say that China crafted a Paris pledge that was relatively easy to meet: overall emissions would peak around 2030 and the country would get 20 percent of its energy from non-fossil sources. Several recent studies suggest that China's emissions could now peak years ahead of schedule as the country's once-insatiable demand for energy has slowed (though other analysts have questioned the accuracy of China's emissions reporting). The central government has already canceled plans for a hundred coal plants and is investing heavily in cleaner sources like solar, wind, and nuclear. The country also plans to sell millions of electric vehicles in the years ahead. Yet keeping the world below 2 degrees of warming would likely require China's coal emissions not just to flatten, but to fall sharply by 2030. India: Focused On Economic Growth Because India is still relatively poor, with 240 million of its citizens lacking access to electricity, the nation has long argued that wealthier countries should take the lead on cutting emissions. As such, India's pledge was less restrictive than pledges from Europe or the United States. The country vowed to install more clean energy and improve its carbon intensity -- the amount of CO2 emitted per unit of gross domestic product -- while still allowing total emissions to rise between now and 2030. India's per capita emissions would likely remain below those of China or the United States. Some recent studies have suggested that India can achieve those modest goals, as the falling cost of renewables and shifting market conditions have allowed the country to scale back its plans for new coal plants after 2022. A recent report from the United Nations Environment Program argued that India had "ample room" to strengthen its emission pledges -- as would likely be necessary to help keep the world below 2 degrees of warming. But the Indian government has asked for aid from wealthier countries to do so. What Happens Next in Climate Talks? Negotiators are meeting in Bonn this month to discuss guidelines for making national pledges and policies more transparent, so that outsiders can gauge individual countries' progress (or lack thereof) more precisely. In 2018, climate negotiators plan to embark on a major effort to assess the world's progress on climate change to date and measure it against the 2 degree goal. Countries can then revise their individual climate pledges accordingly -- and will do so every five years thereafter. Right now, many of the Paris pledges remain fairly opaque, and most nations have been vague on what specific policies they will take to meet them. There is no official mechanism for quantifying progress. As a result, groups like Climate Action Tracker have had to make rough estimates as to whether nations are on pace to meet their pledges -- and how much further each country would need to go for the world to stay below 2 degrees of global warming. Increasing the transparency of pledges would make it easier for countries to pressure each other do more, which is how the Paris Agreement was designed, said David Victor, a professor of international relations at the University of California, San Diego. "Countries could come back and say, 'Here's what has worked, what didn't, what our progress is and what other countries can learn,"' Dr. Victor said. "We know from other areas of international cooperation that that dynamic actually works pretty well." 
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 
Illustration 
CHARTS (Source: Climate Action Tracker) 
Copyright New York Times Company Nov 11, 2017 
Subject 	Nuclear energy; Emissions; Electric vehicles; 
International relations; Global warming; Coal-fired power plants; Paris Agreement; Industrial plant emissions; Climate change; Nuclear power plants; Gross Domestic Product--GDP; Natural gas; International; Pollution control; Emission standards; Environmental policy  
Location  United States--US; Canada; India; Germany; China; Japan  
People  Trump, Donald J  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  European Union 926110, 928120  
Title  Tracking the World's Progress In Meeting Its Climate Goals: [Foreign Desk]  
Author  Plumer, Brad; Popovich, Nadja  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.9  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Nov 11, 2017  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1962534261  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1962534261?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Nov 11, 2017  
Last updated  2017-11-14  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 211 of 236 


What's at Stake In the Climate Talks Underway in Bonn?: [Foreign Desk] 
Plumer, Brad.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]11 Nov 2017: A.9. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=What%27s+at+Stake+In+the+Climate+Talks+Underway+in+Bonn%3F%3A+% 11-11&volume=&issue=&spage=A.9&au=Plumer%2C+Brad&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
The Paris climate agreement of 2015 was a key moment in the battle against climate change: 195 countries vowed to help limit the rise in global temperatures since the industrial revolution to "well below" 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit). 
But the Paris deal was just the start of a long, arduous process. The world's nations are still struggling to translate their lofty promises into meaningful cuts in greenhouse gas emissions. Which explains why diplomats are now meeting for yet another round of climate talks in Bonn, Germany, which began on Nov. 6 and continue through Friday. 
Much of the attention at these talks will be on the Trump administration, which has vowed to withdraw the United States from the Paris deal by 2020. In response, a gaggle of world leaders, American governors, major corporations and advocacy groups will make a big show of insisting that global action on climate change is still trundling forward, with or without President Trump. 
Yet much of the crucial work at Bonn will happen behind closed doors as diplomats try to build on the initial Paris agreement, crafting new rules and guidelines that, they hope, will help turn hazy national promises into concrete action. Here's what to watch for. 
What is being done at Bonn? 
The overarching task is the same as ever: figuring out how to limit severe global warming in the decades ahead. 
Under the Paris agreement, each country submitted a voluntary pledge to tackle its greenhouse gas emissions and then agreed to meet every five years to review their collective progress and prod one another to ratchet up their efforts. 
But so far, those pledges have proved inadequate. Most industrialized countries -- from Europe to Japan to the United States -- aren't on track to meet their emissions goals. And even if they were, the current pledges put the world on course to heat up 3 degrees Celsius or more, an outcome with a far greater risk of destabilizing ice sheets in Greenland and Antarctica, drastic sea-level rise and more destructive heat waves and droughts. To stay well below 2 degrees, countries would need to cut back fossil-fuel emissions far more rapidly than they've promised so far. 
In 2018, leaders plan to assess their efforts to date and discuss what further action could help lessen the odds of drastic global warming -- with the goal of crafting newer, stronger national pledges by 2020. But before they can do any of that, they need to agree to formal ground rules for that exercise. That "rule book" will be a focus at Bonn. 
How do countries plan to make progress on climate change? 
One widely recognized problem with the current Paris pledges is that they're fairly vague. 
China promised that its emissions would peak around 2030, but the country's energy data is notoriously murky, so it's hard to tell how much progress it's actually making. Similarly, the European Union vowed to cut emissions 40 percent below 1990 levels by 2030, but offered few specifics on how to achieve that goal -- making it hard to gauge whether European policymakers could realistically be doing much more. 
At Bonn, negotiators will be discussing how to make these pledges more rigorous and transparent, so that countries can more readily be held accountable for their actions. That means tackling questions like: What's the best way to track nations' progress, to see if they're doing what they said they would do? Is there a way to tell if a country's pledge could be made more ambitious? Which specific policies are working well and which aren't? 
Because the Paris pledges are largely voluntary -- world leaders would have never agreed to a deal otherwise -- no one can force governments to take additional action. But, the idea goes, if pledges and policies are made more transparent, world leaders will be better able to pressure and help each other to do more. 
The final draft of this "rule book" is not due until next year, and it may not actually get finished at Bonn, but negotiators are hoping to make significant progress on a long list of items at these talks. As always, diplomacy tends to proceed fitfully. 
What role will the U.S. play? 
Even though the Trump administration has vowed to withdraw from the Paris agreement, the United States can't formally exit the climate talks until 2020. So the State Department is sending a small team of negotiators to discuss some of the details of the pact. 
The United States and China will still preside over a working group on transparency, though it remains to be seen how much influence American officials can wield. 
The administration will also hold an event in Bonn with representatives from energy companies to promote coal, natural gas and nuclear power as solutions to global warming. Other countries are expected to view the American push to promote fossil fuels with a wary eye. 
In the meantime, a coalition of pro-Paris governors and other officials plan to attend the conference to tout efforts that states, cities and businesses are making to reduce emissions despite the Trump administration's stance -- highlighting the country's deep divide over climate policy. 
Any disagreements expected? 
Discussions around the "rule book" for assessing and ratcheting up pledges could prove contentious. In the past, for instance, the United States has insisted that developing countries be held to the same strict monitoring standards as wealthy countries, while China and India have pushed for a bifurcated system. 
Developing countries have also argued that they need financial aid from wealthier nations to expand clean energy and adapt to the ravages of climate change. 
The government of Fiji is presiding over the Bonn conference, which will put the spotlight on issues like "loss and damage" -- that is, whether wealthy nations should compensate island nations and other poorer countries for the droughts, storms and rising sea levels that their emissions are causing. The Paris agreement broached this issue only briefly, and industrialized nations have resisted calls to be held legally liable for their role in warming the planet. 
What's the best-case scenario from Bonn? What's the worst? 
Some climate advocates are hoping for a relatively low-key conference that makes modest progress on issues like transparency and climate finance. In this scenario, American officials would play a quietly constructive role in helping craft the rule book for ratcheting up pledges. And nonstate actors, including cities and businesses, would continue to press forward on efforts to tackle climate change outside of the formal United Nations process. 
Conversely, it's entirely possible that the Trump administration's rejection of the Paris deal could lead other countries to disengage from global efforts to address climate change. Or the talks could get bogged down by the traditional rifts between richer and poorer nations. That, in turn, could stall momentum right before the next big round of climate talks in 2018 -- when countries are supposed to get down to the details of what's needed to step up their climate policies going forward. 
Follow @NYTClimate on Twitter 

Photograph 
Activists Project the Message "No Future in Fossil Fuels" at a Power Plant in Grevenbroich, Germany, On Friday. (Photograph by Oliver Berg/Dpa, Via Associated Press) 
Copyright New York Times Company Nov 11, 2017 
Subject 	Fossil fuels; 
Emissions; 

Greenhouse effect; 
Climate change; 
Summit conferences; 

Greenhouse gases; 
Global warming; 
Pollution control; 
Paris Agreement; 

Emission standards; 
Environmental policy 


Location 	China; United States--US; Antarctica; Greenland; Germany; Japan; Europe 
Title 	What's at Stake In the Climate Talks Underway in Bonn?: [Foreign Desk] 
Author 	Plumer, Brad 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.9 
Publication year 	2017 
Publication date 	Nov 11, 2017 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	General Interest Periodicals--United States 
ISSN 	03624331 
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1962527578  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1962527578?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Nov 11, 2017  
Last updated  2017-11-14  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 212 of 236 


Alone and Adrift in a Warming World: [Editorial] 
New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]10 Nov 2017: A.26. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Alone+and+Adrift+in+a+Warming+World%3A+%5BEditorial%5D&title=New+ 11-10&volume=&issue=&spage=A.26&au=&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
President Trump is about to be a party of one. 
Earlier this week, Syria announced during an international conference in Bonn, Germany, that it would add its name to the historic 2015 Paris climate agreement, in which nearly 200 countries pledged their best efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. This would leave the United States as the only country to have rejected the Paris deal, which Mr. Trump did in a Rose Garden rant on June 1 that was notable, even by Trumpian standards, for its dishonesty. 
Our advice to the delegates in Bonn is this: Ignore Mr. Trump, who seems, on this issue anyway, to be beyond persuasion. Honor your pledges. Get on with the talks, which are supposed to build on the Paris agreement by establishing benchmarks to measure how well you're doing now and to lay the groundwork for even more ambitious targets in 2020. And hope, as we do, that efforts now underway by state and local governments and by private businesses to control emissions and move the United States to a cleaner energy future will make up for Mr. Trump's indifference. 
That Mr. Trump wants out of Paris is only one measure of that indifference. A better measure is provided by policies that would move exactly in the wrong direction, policies aimed at overturning greenhouse gas regulations on power plants, repealing limits on methane emissions, weakening automobile efficiency standards, enlarging subsidies for coal plants and increasing oil drilling in the Arctic. 
Meanwhile, the hacks, industry careerists and global warming deniers he has appointed to run agencies responsible for climate policy are mostly a joke, the latest howler being Kathleen Hartnett White, a former Texas regulator whom Mr. Trump has named to run the White House Council on Environmental Quality. Mrs. White, who, if approved, would coordinate the administration's environmental policy, has dismissed carbon dioxide as a "harmless trace gas" (but a useful "plant food") and described as "paganism" the belief that man-made pollutants are warming the atmosphere. 
Outlandish though her views are, she'll fit right in with the see-no-evil likes of Scott Pruitt, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, who has scrubbed references to climate change from the agency's website and barred its scientists from presenting reports on the subject; Rick Perry, the energy secretary with various oddball schemes to prop up coal plants; and all the others in high office who seem impervious to the real-time evidence of climate change -- the wildfires, hurricanes and rising seas -­as well as one authoritative study after another, the latest being a congressionally mandated National Climate Assessment that directly contradicts the administration's view that humans are not responsible. 
We've been here before. In the George W. Bush administration, government officials doctored scientific reports, Vice President Dick Cheney stacked the top ranks of government with friends of the fossil fuel industry, and the president himself rejected a climate agreement adopted in 1997 in Kyoto, Japan, as "fatally flawed" because, he said, it would damage the economy. 
Mr. Bush made many of the same flawed arguments that Mr. Trump is making. He, too, fretted unnecessarily about federal overreach, while greatly underestimating the jobs and economic benefits a clean energy economy could bring. There was, however, one big difference. Amid all of Mr. Bush's flimflam was a solid beef about the Kyoto agreement, namely, that while it committed the big industrial countries to making legally binding emissions reductions targets, it let developing countries -- which then included China and India -- off the hook. 
That complaint is no longer valid. One of the great achievements of the Paris accord, engineered in large part by President Barack Obama and his secretary of state, John Kerry, is that it ropes in everyone. Everyone, that is, except the one nation whose president bailed out. 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 
Credit: THE EDITORIAL BOARD 
Illustration 
Drawing (Drawing by Kiersten Essenpreis) 
Copyright New York Times Company Nov 10, 2017 
Subject 	Agreements; Greenhouse gases; Emissions; Presidents; 
Coal-fired power plants;  
Emission standards;  
Environmental policy;  
Industrial plant emissions;  
Climate change;  
Editorials;  
Global warming;  
Paris Agreement  
Location  Texas; United States--US; Arctic region; Germany; Syria  
People  Perry, Rick; Pruitt, Scott; Trump, Donald J; Bush, George W  
Company / organization  Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS: 924110;  
Name: Council on Environmental Quality  
NAICS: 926130  
Title  Alone and Adrift in a Warming World: [Editorial]  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.26  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Nov 10, 2017  
column  Editorial  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  1962079236  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1962079236?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Nov 10, 2017  
Last updated  2017-11-10  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 213 of 236 


Endowments Rise as Schools Bury Earnings: [News; Series] 
Saul, Stephanie.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]09 Nov 2017: A.1. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Endowments+Rise+as+Schools+Bury+Earnings%3A+%5BNews%3B+Series%5D 11-09&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Saul%2C+Stephanie&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
In 2006, the endowments of Indiana University and Texas Christian University invested millions of dollars in a partnership, hoping to mint riches from oil, gas and coal. 
The partnership was formed by the Houston-based Quintana Capital Group, whose principals include Donald L. Evans, an influential Texan and longtime supporter of former President George W. Bush. Little more than a year earlier, Mr. Evans had left his cabinet position as commerce secretary. 
Though the group had an impressive Texas pedigree, presidential cachet and ambitions for operations in the United States, the new partnership was established in the Cayman Islands. The founders promised their university and nonprofit investors that the partnership would try to avoid federal taxes by exploiting a loophole called "blocker corporations," which are typically established in tax havens around the world. 
A trove of millions of leaked documents from a Bermuda-based law firm, Appleby, reflects some of the tax wizardry used by American colleges and universities. Schools have increasingly turned to secretive offshore investments, the files show, which let them swell their endowments with blocker corporations, and avoid scrutiny of ventures involving fossil fuels or other issues that could set off campus controversy. 
Buoyed by lucrative tax breaks, college endowments have amassed more than $500 billion nationwide. The wealth is concentrated in a small group of schools, tilting toward private institutions like those in the Ivy League and other highly selective colleges. About 11 percent of higher-education institutions in the United States hold 74 percent of the money, according to an analysis in 2015 by the Congressional Research Service. 
"It's overwhelmingly weighted towards the 1 percent," said Dean Zerbe, former tax counsel to the Senate Finance Committee. "Most of the schools are the most elites in the country." 
The House Republican tax plan includes a 1.4 percent tax on the investment income of private colleges and universities with endowment assets of $250,000 or more per student. It would not apply to public schools. If passed, the new tax would affect about 70 elite private colleges, though it would not touch the type of offshore benefits the Texan partnership pursued. 
On Monday, 45 education groups declared their opposition to the bill in a letter to Kevin Brady, the Texas Republican who is the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee. 
Tax 'Blockers' 
College and university endowment earnings are usually tax-exempt. But as endowments have sought greater investment returns in recent years, they have shifted more of their money out of traditional holdings like United States equities to alternative, potentially more lucrative investments. These include private equity and hedge funds that frequently borrow money, opening them up to tax consequences. 
When schools earn income from enterprises unrelated to their core educational missions, they can be required to pay a tax that was intended to prevent nonprofits from competing unfairly with for-profit businesses. 
Establishing another corporate layer between private equity funds and endowments effectively blocks any taxable income from flowing to the endowments, the reason they are called blocker corporations. The tax is instead owed by the corporations, which are established in no-tax or low-tax jurisdictions like the Cayman Islands or the British Virgin Islands. 
"Congress is essentially subsidizing nonprofits by allowing them to engage in these transactions," said Norman I. Silber, a law professor at Hofstra University who co-authored a paper on blocker corporations in 2015. "They're allowing them to borrow so that they can build up their endowments." 
The use of blocker corporations has raised concerns among policymakers in recent years. That's partly because they cost the United States Treasury millions of dollars, but also because they legitimize an opaque offshore network sometimes used for nefarious purposes. 
"They're not cheating. They're not hiding money or disguising money," said Samuel Brunson, a law professor at Loyola University Chicago who has studied endowment taxation. "But they're adding money to a system that allows people, if they want to hide their money, to do it." Not only do the universities benefit -- so does the wealthy and influential private equity industry. 
Perhaps illustrating the sensitivity of the topic, officials at most of the college and university endowments that use blocker corporations, including Colgate, Dartmouth, Duke and Stanford, declined to comment specifically, citing longstanding policies against discussing their investments. Among them was Matt Kavgian, the director of strategic communications for Indiana University's $2 billion endowment, which had invested $10 million with Quintana. 
An exception was the Quintana shareholder Texas Christian University, whose chief investment officer, Jim Hille, acknowledged that the $1.5 billion endowment had used blocker corporations. Mr. Hille said the decision to use one often came down to whether the expected return would offset the cost of establishing a blocker corporation. 
References to such corporations in the Appleby files, shared with The New York Times by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists, which obtained them from the German newspaper Süddeutsche Zeitung, date back at least to 2003. At that time, five elite schools -- Columbia University, Dartmouth College, the University of Southern California, Stanford University and Johns Hopkins University -- became partners in a Bermuda-based group called H&F Investors Blocker. 
H&F Investors Blocker was formed to invest with one of the largest private equity firms, Hellman & Friedman, in shares of Axel Springer, a German publisher of newspapers and magazines. 
Minutes from meetings at Appleby's office in Hamilton, Bermuda, never mention tax avoidance or even explain why the word "blocker" is used in the partnership's title. But an audit by Ernst & Young, contained in the minutes, shows that H&F Investors Blocker would owe no federal income tax. 
By 2008, the University of Texas system -- whose endowment last year was $24.2 billion, behind Harvard's ($34.5 billion) and Yale's ($25.4 billion) -- asked Appleby to set up a Cayman Islands company called TX Liquidity Capital so "certain tax advantages will accrue to the system," documents show. 
Colgate University, with an endowment worth $822 million last year, stood to benefit from blocker corporations in 2008 when it invested in Genstar Capital, a private equity fund specializing in leveraged buyouts, according to the records. One investor in that Cayman Islands partnership, called Genstar Capital Partners V HV, took pains to include a handwritten a note near his signature: "elect to invest through the blocker." Other investors were Dartmouth, Stanford and a Duke fund called Gothic Corporation. 
A Shift in Public Attitude 
While legal, blocker corporations are part of a system of endowment tax breaks fueling an undercurrent of populist anger. Many students across the country struggle under massive college debt. At the same time, critics say, some wealthy schools use these tax advantages to stockpile endowments that exceed the gross national product of entire countries. 
Last year, three influential Republican legislators, led by Senator Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, sent a letter to 56 private universities with endowments of $1 billion or more, requesting information on "the numerous tax preferences" they enjoy. "Despite these large and growing endowments," the letter said, "many colleges and universities have raised tuition far in excess of inflation." 
So far, universities have mobilized lobbyists to emphasize the public benefits they deliver, beating back challenges to their tax breaks. But there is evidence that the mood has shifted, said Charlie Eaton, a professor at the University of California, Merced, who has studied endowment tax breaks. 
"In some ways, the anti-elite and anti-university spirit of Trumpism could create a favorable environment on Capitol Hill for some kind of action on this," Dr. Eaton said. "That's part of the reason universities urgently need to grapple with this. Because people genuinely feel that our elite universities have become islands of wealth." 
In a study this year, Dr. Eaton estimated that a trio of tax breaks benefiting universities costs federal taxpayers $19.6 billion a year. Taxpayers, many of them wealthy, get breaks when they donate to colleges. Tax-free municipal bonds allow schools to borrow money at low rates. And for the most part, endowment investment returns are tax-free. 
Controversial Ventures 
Multiple Appleby documents offer a glimpse into the complex financial transactions and investments, some controversial, that university endowments engage in all over the world, aside from using blockers. 
Universities have been under pressure from both students and activists to shift to "green" investments in response to climate change, as well as to take social policy and global governance issues into account in investments. 
The Appleby records show that investment funds of Columbia and Duke, both ranked in the top 20 endowments, held shares as recently as 2015 in Ferrous Resources, registered in the Isle of Man. Its primary business is iron mining in Brazil. 
The company drew criticism there with a planned 480 kilometer pipeline to transport iron slurry from a mine in Minas Gerais to a port. 
"Major demonstrations took place against this project, which culminated in the creation of a campaign,"' researchers wrote in a 2015 paper published in the journal Society & Nature. 
A 2010 environmental study of the pipeline revealed that more than 110,000 people might be affected by noise, dust, soil degradation and water quality issues. The project was postponed in 2012 after a downturn in iron prices. 
The company, Ferrous Resouces, declined to comment, except to say that the project had been discontinued. 
Columbia, which owned more than eight million shares in Ferrous Recources, or 1.1 percent of the company, declined to comment. Various investment funds connected to Duke, which also declined to comment, held more than two million shares in the company. 
While some schools have announced shifts away from controversial investments, others have pointed out that divesting from fossil fuels would probably lead to a significant drop in operating funds. 
Underscoring endowments' reliance on hydrocarbon holdings, 10 schools invested in a Cayman Islands partnership in 2012 known as EnCap Energy Capital Fund IX-C, part of EnCap Investments, a private equity firm known for the acquisition and development of North American oil and gas properties. 
Among the investors were the University of Alabama, DePauw, Northeastern, Pittsburgh, Purdue, Reed College, Rutgers, Syracuse, Texas Tech and Washington State. 

Photograph 
Texas Christian University, Top, has a $1.5 Billion Endowment, and Indiana University, Above, has an Endowment of $2 Billion. In 2006, Both Schools Invested Millions in an Oil, Gas and Coal Partnership Established in the Cayman Islands, a Tax Haven. (Photographs by Cooper Neill for the New York Times; Luke Sharrett for the New York Times); Clockwise From Top Near Right, Johns Hopkins University, Columbia University, Stanford University and the University of Southern California Are Four of the Elite Schools That Became Partners in a Bermuda-Based Group That an Audit Showed Would Owe No Federal Income Tax. (Photographs by Andrew Mangum for the New York Times; Karsten Moran for the New York Times; Jessica Sample for the New York Times; Max Whittaker for the New York Times) (A14) 
Copyright New York Times Company Nov 9, 2017 
Subject 
Private equity;  
Private schools;  
Fossil fuels;  
Earnings;  
Equity funds;  
Iron;  
Colleges & universities;  
Equity;  
Endowment;  
Offshore;  
Income taxes;  
Scholarships & fellowships;  
Congressional committees;  
Partnerships;  
Tax havens  
Location  United States--US; Cayman Islands  
Company / organization  Name: Texas Christian University  
NAICS: 611310;  
Name: New York Times Co  
NAICS: 511110, 511120, 515112, 515120;  
Name: University of Southern California  
NAICS: 611310;  
Name: Indiana University  
NAICS: 611310;  
Name: Quintana Capital Group LP  
NAICS: 523910, 523920;  
Name: Appleby Global Group Services Ltd  
NAICS: 541110  
Title  Endowments Rise as Schools Bury Earnings: [News; Series]  
Author  Saul, Stephanie  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.1  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Nov 9, 2017  
column  The Paradise Papers  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  

Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1961709161  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1961709161?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Nov 9, 2017  
Last updated  2017-11-09  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 214 of 236 


Environment Nominees Draw Democrats' Fire: [National Desk] 
Friedman, Lisa.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]09 Nov 2017: A.13. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Environment+Nominees+Draw+Democrats%27+Fire%3A+%5BNational+Desk% 11-09&volume=&issue=&spage=A.13&au=Friedman%2C+Lisa&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- A Senate hearing on nominees for two top environmental posts on Wednesday quickly turned testy over the Trump administration's ambivalence on climate change science. 
Andrew R. Wheeler, a lobbyist for Murray Energy, which is owned by Robert E. Murray, an Appalachian coal mining magnate and prominent backer of President Trump, has been nominated to be the deputy administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. 
Kathleen Hartnett White, a former Texas environmental regulator who has described belief in global warming as "a kind of paganism," has been tapped to lead the White House Council on Environmental Quality. 
Democratic members of the Environment and Public Works Committee focused much of their hostility on Mrs. White, a fellow at the Texas Public Policy Foundation and the former chairwoman of the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality. Democrats assailed her past writings on climate change, including articles in which she called carbon dioxide "the gas of life" and described renewable energy as parasitic. 
"Your positions are so far out of the mainstream, they are not just outliers, they are outrageous," said Senator Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts. "You have a fringe voice that denies science, economics and reality." 
Asked if she stood by her previous statements, Mrs. White replied, "It's likely that CO2 has some influence on the climate," but added that carbon dioxide did not have the characteristics of a pollutant that directly affects human health. "It's a plant nutrient," she said. 
The Trump administration last week issued a comprehensive report on climate science that said that the planet was definitely growing warmer and that human activities were the predominant cause. Despite those unambiguous findings, administration officials and nominees continue to question the validity of climate change science. 
Mr. Wheeler, a former aide to Senator James M. Inhofe, an Oklahoma Republican, faced lighter questioning. He declined to pledge to recuse himself from working on lawsuits that Murray Energy has filed against the E.P.A., saying he would abide by the guidance of the agency's ethics advisers. 
Midwestern Republicans, meanwhile, pressed Mrs. White on her past criticism of the renewable fuel standard, which requires refiners to blend corn-based ethanol with gasoline. White House officials last month directed the E.P.A. to halt efforts to weaken a federal biofuel mandate after pressure from Iowa politicians and others who threatened to hold up agency nominees. 
Mrs. White said that her position had recently changed because she had read new data and that she now supported the fuel standard. 
If the two are confirmed, it will go a small way toward filling the still largely empty ranks of senior energy and environmental posts, which are slowing the Trump administration's ability to achieve its agenda. According to the Partnership for Public Service, a nonpartisan and nonprofit organization that tracks federal nominations, 28 key positions at the E.P.A., the Energy Department and the Interior Department that require Senate confirmation lack nominees. 
That includes critical positions like the under secretary for nuclear energy at the Energy Department and the director of the United States Geological Survey, who essentially serves as the Interior Department's chief scientist. At the E.P.A., only the administrator, Scott Pruitt, has been confirmed by the Senate. Five others are awaiting confirmation, including William L. Wehrum to lead the agency's air office and Michael L. Dourson to head the chemical safety office. Lawmakers acknowledged that Mrs. White and Mr. Wheeler may not have a confirmation vote until the end of the year, and six other E.P.A. positions are still without a nominee. 
Even Trump administration supporters who have applauded the E.P.A.'s moves to undo Obama-era climate change rules said they were frustrated. 
"You can talk the talk, but you need people to actually walk the walk in rolling back these agendas," said Nicolas Loris, a research fellow in energy and environmental policy at the Heritage Foundation, a conservative research group. "You need people and staff in place to get these through the process." 
Senator John Barrasso, the Wyoming Republican who is chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, blamed Democrats for holding up the 11 environmental candidates the panel has approved and some 100 Trump administration nominees across agencies. The Senate, for example, has yet to confirm the administrator of NASA. 
"All year long Democrats have been putting up roadblocks to President Trump's nominees," he said. "It's time to end this pointless spectacle." 
Mr. Trump has indicated many of the vacancies may be permanent. "I'm generally not going to make a lot of the appointments that would normally be -- because you don't need them," he told Forbes. "I mean, you look at some of these agencies, how massive they are, and it's totally unnecessary. They have hundreds of thousands of people." 
Max Stier, president of the Partnership for Public Service, agreed that in some cases confirmations for Mr. Trump's nominees were taking longer than for other recent presidents. And, he said, Mr. Trump may be correct when he says the more than 4,000 appointments every new president must make are too many and largely unnecessary. Still, he said, with only about 440 people nominated to the 1,200 jobs requiring Senate confirmation, "the fault, bluntly, is predominantly with the executive branch." 
"Nobody has done this quickly or well," Mr. Stier said. "President Trump is just doing it worse than anyone else so far." 
Follow @NYTClimate on Twitter 

Photograph 
Kathleen Hartnett White has Called Belief in Global Warming "a Kind of Paganism." (Photograph by Sam Hodgson for the New York Times) 
Copyright New York Times Company Nov 9, 2017 
Subject 	Nominations; 
Bills; 

Presidents; 
Climate change; 
Environmental quality; 
Political appointments; 
Environmental policy; 
Climate science 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Inhofe, Jim; Markey, Edward J; White, Kathleen 
Company / organization 	Name: Partnership for Public Service 

NAICS: 813910; 

Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA NAICS: 924110; 
Name: Council on Environmental Quality NAICS: 926130; 
Name: Texas Public Policy Foundation NAICS: 813211; 
Name: Democratic Party NAICS: 813940 
Title 	Environment Nominees Draw Democrats' Fire: [National Desk] 
Author 	Friedman, Lisa 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.13 
Publication year 	2017 
Publication date 	Nov 9, 2017 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	General Interest Periodicals--United States 
ISSN 	03624331 
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1961708179  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1961708179?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Nov 9, 2017  
Last updated  2019-07-12  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 215 of 236 


Why Slashing Nuclear Power May Backfire: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Porter, Eduardo.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]08 Nov 2017: B.1. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Why+Slashing+Nuclear+Power+May+Backfire%3A+%5BBusiness%2FFinancial+ 11-08&volume=&issue=&spage=B.1&au=Porter%2C+Eduardo&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Two decades have passed since diplomats from around the world emerged from a conference hall in Kyoto, Japan, with what was billed as the first deal ever to limit emissions of carbon dioxide and other heat-trapping greenhouse gases that are relentlessly warming the earth's atmosphere. 
Climate diplomacy has made a lot of progress since then. All but one of the world's nations -- the United States -- have enlisted in the cause, making concrete commitments to reduce their reliance on fossil fuels. 
Leaving aside President Trump's past declarations that climate change is a hoax, there are heartening signs that the strategy may work: Global carbon-dioxide emissions have stopped rising. Coal use in China may have peaked. The price of wind turbines and solar panels is plummeting, putting renewable energy within the reach of meager budgets in the developing world. 
And yet as climate diplomats gather this week in Bonn, Germany, for the 23rd Conference of the Parties under the auspices of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, I would like to point their attention to a different, perhaps gloomier statistic: the world's carbon intensity of energy. 
The term refers to a measure of the amount of CO2 spewed into the air for each unit of energy consumed. It offers some bad news: It has not budged since that chilly autumn day in Kyoto 20 years ago. Even among the highly industrialized nations in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, the carbon intensity of energy has declined by a paltry 4 percent since then, according to the International Energy Agency. 
This statistic, alone, puts a big question mark over the strategies deployed around the world to replace fossil energy. In a nutshell: Perhaps renewables are not the answer. 
Over the past 10 years, governments and private investors have collectively spent $2 trillion on infrastructure to draw electricity from the wind and the sun, according to estimates by Bloomberg New Energy Finance. Environmental Progress, a nonprofit that advocates nuclear power as an essential tool in the battle against climate change, says that exceeds the total cost of all nuclear plants built to date or under construction, adjusted for inflation. 
Capacity from renewable sources has grown by leaps and bounds, outpacing growth from all other sources -- including coal, natural gas and nuclear power -- in recent years. Solar and wind capacity installed in 2015 was more than 10 times what the International Energy Agency had forecast a decade before. 
Still, except for very limited exceptions, all this wind and sun has not brought about much decarbonization. Indeed, it has not added much clean power to the grid. 
Environmental Progress performed an analysis of the evolution of the carbon intensity of energy in 68 countries since 1965. It found no correlation between the additions of solar and wind power and the carbon intensity of energy: Despite additions of renewable capacity, carbon intensity remained flat. 
Some countries have bucked the trend. Denmark has sharply cut its carbon intensity with vast installations of wind turbines. And yet Germany's experience seems to be more typical. The country went all out in deploying wind and solar energy over the past 10 years, but the decline in carbon intensity was minuscule, from 212 to 203 grams of CO2 per kilowatt-hour. 
The renewables-or-bust crowd on the periphery of the meeting in Bonn might argue that the sun and wind owe their poor track record at decarbonization in countries like Germany to the fact that nuclear power was being phased out at the same time that they came online. 
It is true that Germans would have made more progress in the battle against climate change had they kept their nuclear reactors running and shut plants burning lignite instead. Still, there are other reasons behind renewables' poor track record in decarbonizing electricity. 
Nuclear power faces hurdles beyond popular mistrust. Notably, reactors require a lot of capital up front. But renewables have a hard time producing power at a nuclear scale. 
For instance, the Diablo Canyon reactor that California plans to close produces 14 times as much power as the Topaz solar farm, which requires 500 times as much land, according to Environmental Progress. The Wind Catcher farm in Oklahoma occupies 2,400 times as much land as Diablo Canyon but produces half as much energy. 
The most worrisome aspect about the all-out push for a future powered by renewables has to do with cost: The price of turbines and solar panels may be falling, but the cost of integrating these intermittent sources of energy -- on when the wind blows and the sun shines; off when they don't -- is not. This alone will sharply curtail the climate benefits of renewable power. 
Integrating renewable sources requires vast investments in electricity transmission -- to move power from intermittently windy and sunny places to places where power is consumed. It requires maintaining a backstop of idle plants that burn fossil fuel, for the times when there is no wind or sun to be had. It requires investing in power-storage systems at a large scale. 
These costs will ultimately be reflected in power prices. One concern is that by raising the retail cost of electricity they will discourage electrification, encouraging consumers to rely on alternative energy sources like gas -- and pushing CO2 emissions up. 
Another concern is that they will drive wholesale energy prices down too far. Because they produce the most energy when the sun is up and the wind is blowing, renewable generators can flood the grid at critical times of the day, slashing the price of power. This not only threatens the solvency of nuclear reactors, which cannot shut down on a dime and must therefore pay for the grid to accept their power, but also reduces the return on additional investment in renewables. 
A study by Lion Hirth from the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research found that the value of wind power falls from 110 percent of the average power price to 50 to 80 percent as the penetration of wind rises from zero to 30 percent of total consumption. "Competitive large-scale renewables deployment will be more difficult to accomplish than many anticipate," he concluded. 
The diplomats in Bonn may be tempted to wave away these concerns. Thomas Bruckner of the University of Leipzig argues that in the case of Germany, expanding renewables to supply 80 percent of power by 2050 is "not a significant burden." Heavy German investment in renewable energy technologies over the last decade succeeded in bringing prices down, he contends; it will be much cheaper to go the rest of the way. 
Perhaps. But there is some evidence that among investors, at least, the excitement may be waning. After half a decade of sustained increases, investment in solar and wind energy has been fairly flat since 2010, at around $250 billion per year. While that is a lot of money, it is nowhere near enough. 
"We will need twice as much investment over a sustained period of time to get anywhere close to achieving 2 degrees," said Ethan Zindler, head of Bloomberg New Energy Finance in the Americas, referring to the objective of the world's climate diplomats: keep the average world temperature from rising more than 2 degrees Celsius above its average in the late 19th century. 
I would suggest that the challenge is not just to raise more money. Building a zero-carbon energy system requires broader thinking about the technological mix. 

AuthorAffiliation 
EDUARDO PORTER eporter@nytimes.com; Twitter: @portereduardo 

Photograph 
The Site in Bonn, Germany, Where Diplomats From Around the World Are Gathering for a United Nations Climate Conference This Week. (Photograph by Sean Gallup/Getty Images) (B2) 
Copyright New York Times Company Nov 8, 2017 
Subject 	Nuclear reactors; 
Wind power; 

Emissions; 

Diplomatic & consular services; 

Carbon dioxide; 
Prices; 

Alternative energy sources; 

Sun; 

Climate change; 
Nuclear energy; 

Global warming; 
Renewable resources; 
Environmental policy; 
Energy policy 


Location 	United States--US; Germany; China; California; Japan 
People 	Trump, Donald J 
Company / organization 	Name: International Energy Agency 

NAICS: 541720, 926130, 928120; 


Name: United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change NAICS: 928120 
Title 	Why Slashing Nuclear Power May Backfire: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Author 	Porter, Eduardo 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	B.1 
Publication year 	2017 
Publication date 	Nov 8, 2017 
Section 	B 
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1961296103  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1961296103?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Nov 8, 2017  
Last updated  2017-11-08  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 216 of 236 


In Asia, Mr. Trump Is Met by Doubt: [Editorial] 
New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]06 Nov 2017: A.24. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=In+Asia%2C+Mr.+Trump+Is+Met+by+Doubt%3A+%5BEditorial%5D&title=N 11-06&volume=&issue=&spage=A.24&au=&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
As President Trump undertakes his first official trip to Asia, American leadership and credibility are in doubt. Leaders in the region worry that his inflammatory statements and impulsiveness could lead to war with North Korea. And there is a serious debate in many Asian countries about whether the future lies in closer partnerships with China, the ascendant power, or with the United States. 
With so much on the line, one would hope that Mr. Trump has prepared carefully for the challenge. Given what we've seen from him, there is good reason to question whether he has. 
The president can ill afford to cede more ground to China. He has backed out of an American-led 12-nation trade deal that was supposed to counter China by setting higher caliber trade rules in Asia and has jettisoned the Paris agreement on climate change, creating space for Beijing to assert influence in both spheres. 
Mr. Trump arrives in Asia as a wounded leader, with low ratings at home and a stalled legislative agenda, and dogged by revelations of Russian interference in the 2016 election on his behalf that have led to indictments against former advisers. His furious denunciations of the constitutional constraints he faces in trying to scuttle the investigation bring to mind the authoritarian leaders of whom he is so fond. This, along with his disregard for human rights, further diminishes the democracy that is America's greatest source of strength and influence in the region. 
A course correction the president made on Friday suggests some awareness about what's at stake on this trip. Departing Washington, he announced he would reverse his earlier decision and attend the East Asian summit in the Philippines, the main forum where leaders of the United States, China, Russia and other Asian nations discuss tensions like those over the South China Sea and transnational threats like terrorism. If Mr. Trump were a no-show, it would intensify doubts about America's regional commitment. 
To address these doubts, Mr. Trump is expected to use a speech at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation meeting in Vietnam to call for a "free and open" Indo-Pacific region, with the goal of containing China, where Mr. Trump will have a state visit with President Xi Jinping. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson has raised the possibility of countering Mr. Xi's $1 trillion "one belt, one road" initiative of roads, pipelines and other projects linking China to Europe and Asia with "alternative financing measures, financing structures." But where the money might come from is a major question. 
In contrast to Mr. Trump's weakness, Mr. Xi just closed a Chinese Communist Party congress at which he was elevated to the same exalted status as the nation's founding father, Mao Zedong, by writing his name and ideas into the party Constitution. Mr. Xi was already a powerful, authoritarian leader expanding China's reach militarily and politically, as well as economically, and he seems to have a clearer vision of where he is taking his country and how to get there, even if some of the means may be appalling. 
Mr. Trump has already undercut his two main priorities for the trip. He wants China to exert more pressure on North Korea to end the North's nuclear weapons program by completely cutting off purchases of North Korean coal, closing North Korean bank accounts and sending North Korean workers home. Mr. Xi has repeatedly rejected going as far as Mr. Trump demands, because doing so could destabilize North Korea, and he has pushed for a negotiated solution to the crisis. But Mr. Trump, reversing his own secretary of state, has refused talks, preferring bombastic threats to "destroy" North Korea that will be magnified if he repeats them in Asia. 
Mr. Trump, pressing a campaign theme, is also pushing hard for China to open up markets and end state subsidies so there is "fair and reciprocal" treatment of the United States. Instead of the 12-nation Trans-Pacific Partnership that he rejected, he favors bilateral deals. But his administration is divided over trade policy, and the most he may get out of the Beijing visit is some commercial agreements between Chinese and American companies. 
Asian nations want and need America to serve as a democratic counterweight to China. Mr. Trump's five-nation, 12-day trip will reveal whether he can rise to this challenge. 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 
Credit: THE EDITORIAL BOARD 
Illustration 
Drawing (Drawing by Alex Nabaum) 
Copyright New York Times Company Nov 6, 2017 
Subject 	Authoritarianism; Presidents; Nuclear weapons; 
Editorials;  
Politics;  
Political leadership;  
International relations-US;  
Foreign policy;  
State visits  
Location  Russia; United States--US; Philippines; Vietnam; China; Asia; North Korea  
People  Tillerson, Rex W; Trump, Donald J  
Company / organization  Name: Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation  
NAICS: 926110  
Title  In Asia, Mr. Trump Is Met by Doubt: [Editorial]  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.24  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Nov 6, 2017  
column  Editorial  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  1960267190  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1960267190?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Nov 6, 2017  
Last updated  2017-11-07  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 217 of 236 


A Climate Report That Changes Minds? Don't Bet on It: [National Desk] 
Plumer, Brad.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]05 Nov 2017: A.22. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=A+Climate+Report+That+Changes+Minds%3F+Don%27t+Bet+on+It%3A+%5B 11-05&volume=&issue=&spage=A.22&au=Plumer%2C+Brad&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- The Trump administration published a report Friday on climate change from its own scientists that left no doubt about its grim reality and its causes. 
So now what? 
With every new authoritative scientific study, those concerned about global warming express hope that the mounting weight of evidence might finally convince skeptical politicians to take action. 
"How much more dire must reports get before this administration comes to terms with the fact that global climate change caused by human activities is happening now and it poses a growing threat?" said Senator Maggie Hassan, Democrat of New Hampshire. 
But there is little reason to think that yet another scientific report will fundamentally shift attitudes on global warming -- either among policymakers or the public at large. Researchers have found again and again that attitudes about climate change are shaped far more profoundly by political ideology or by comfort with proposed solutions to global warming than they are by the science itself. 
White House aides said that President Trump, who spent much of Friday in the air on his way to meetings in Asia, was barely aware of the report's existence. 
The latest climate report, written by scientists in 13 federal agencies as part of a congressionally mandated National Climate Assessment, says little that hasn't been said in countless reports over the past decade. Its major conclusions are virtually identical to those of a federal assessment published in 2014: Global warming is real, caused by humans and its impacts are being felt across the United States, from increased heat waves to greater flooding risks along the coasts. 
Yet that 2014 report did little to sway skeptical Republicans who have dismissed climate change as sketchy science and a liberal hobby horse. Representative Lamar Smith, a Texas Republican and a leading critic of climate science in Congress, responded by calling it a "political document," emphasizing the lingering uncertainties in the report. He has also derided the expertise of what he calls "so-called self-professed climate scientists." 
Mr. Smith's response highlighted a longstanding and uncomfortable dynamic: When scientific studies conflict with ingrained political values, it is all too easy to dismiss the scientists themselves as biased or to migrate toward a different set of authorities, however marginal, who can poke holes in an inconvenient report. 
Similarly, few observers expect this new report to influence the Trump administration, which has pushed to repeal federal regulations on the greenhouse gases that lead to global warming and whose officials have expressed doubt about the causes of a warming planet. 
"I think there are a range of attitudes and sentiments within the administration about causes of and risks associated with climate change," said Michael McKenna, a Republican energy lobbyist and adviser to the Trump transition. "But two things everyone seems to share are a concern that climate sensitivity is overblown and a sturdy skepticism about any and all possible 'remedies' that have been proposed." 
"I don't see where this report is going to alter either of those sentiments," he said. "Nor do I think it should." 
Researchers who study public attitudes toward climate change are also skeptical that science alone can spur people to care about the issue. 
"If someone is already not on board with climate science or is just disengaged and feels like it doesn't matter, more information about ocean acidification or attribution of extreme weather events isn't going to change their minds," said Katharine Hayhoe, a professor of political science at Texas Tech University who contributed to the federal climate report. 
But that doesn't mean public attitudes about climate change are frozen forever, incapable of shifting, added Dr. Hayhoe, who has made a habit of reaching out to conservatives and other skeptics of climate change. 
One major disconnect she has found is that many people don't think climate change will affect them personally. A recent survey by the Yale Program on Climate Change Communication found that the majority of Americans think that global warming will negatively affect the country, but only a small minority thought that they themselves would suffer. 
Dr. Hayhoe suggested that the second part of the National Climate Assessment, still in draft form and due out in 2018, could help alter those views. That report will explore in vivid detail the impacts that global warming will have on local communities, documenting trends like the sharp rise in tidal flooding that is already beginning to swamp cities like Hampton Roads, Va. 
There is some evidence that even policymakers skeptical of human-caused global warming will take notice of worsening local impacts and act accordingly. Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin, for instance, has largely disavowed climate science. But in December, his state emergency management agency nonetheless released a sweeping plan to prepare for higher temperatures and heavier rainfall events in the future. 
"While there remains some debate about the cause of climate change, there has been a documented change in weather patterns over time in Wisconsin," the report noted, adding later, "Climate resilience is a state and national priority." 
Dr. Hayhoe has also found that many conservatives are more skeptical about climate science when they think that the solutions to global warming look suspiciously like a liberal wish list involving extensive government intervention. 
But there are signs that those attitudes are slowly shifting. Both solar and wind power, which have always been broadly popular, are growing fastest in many Republican-leaning states -- a trend that could do far more than endless scientific reports to break the deadlock around climate politics. 
"The place where I often tend to find common ground is when we can agree on solutions," said Dr. Hayhoe. "Because if someone supports the growth of clean energy, does it matter why they support it?" 
On that score, the Trump administration is less likely to rethink its priorities. Support for renewable energy and action on climate change often contradicts other key political priorities, such as supporting coal-mining communities and the domestic oil industry. 
Even so, some observers wonder if the new climate science report could at the very least increase international pressure on the White House to take climate change more seriously, particularly after President Trump said he would withdraw the United States from the Paris climate agreement. 
"I don't think it's going to have any impact on the policies of this administration," said Paul Bledsoe, a former Clinton White House climate change adviser. "But it highlights how isolated the administration's position on climate change has become internationally." 
Follow @NYTClimate on Twitter 

Photograph 
Schoolchildren in Dhaka, Bangladesh, Shielding Themselves From the Heat of the Sun On May 23, When the Temperature Reached 100 Degrees. (Photograph by Zakir Chowdhury/Barcroft Images -- Barcroft Media Via Getty Images) 
Copyright New York Times Company Nov 5, 2017 
Subject 	Scientists; 
Floods; 

Studies; 
Politics; 

Global warming; 
Researchers; 

Alternative energy sources; 

Attitudes; 
Climate science; 
Greenhouse effect; 
Climate change; 
Rain; 
Environmental policy 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Trump, Donald J 
Company / organization 	Name: Congress 

NAICS: 921120 


Title 	A Climate Report That Changes Minds? Don't Bet on It: [National Desk] 
Author 	Plumer, Brad 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.22 
Publication year 	2017 
Publication date 	Nov 5, 2017 
column 	News Analysis 
Section 	A 
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1959910941  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1959910941?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Nov 5, 2017  
Last updated  2017-11-08  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 218 of 236 


Rick Perry's Strange Sex Story: Commentary 
Collins, Gail.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]04 Nov 2017: A.22. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Rick+Perry%27s+Strange+Sex+Story%3A+Commentary&title=New+York+Ti 11-04&volume=&issue=&spage=A.22&au=Collins%2C+Gail&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Oh, that Rick Perry. 
Our secretary of energy was in South Africa recently, for Africa Oil Week. Whenever the word "oil" is mentioned, Perry responds like a dog on the scent of a hamburger. So no surprise there. We wouldn't even have noticed he was gone, except for the part where he suggested that fossil fuels would protect women from sexual assault. 
"Let me tell you where people are dying is in Africa," he told an audience after he returned, launching into a story about a young village girl who yearned to be able to read by electric light instead of a smoky fire. 
O.K. so far ... 
"But also from the standpoint of sexual assault," Perry continued. "When the lights are on, where you have light that shines, the righteousness, if you will, on those types of 
acts. So from the standpoint of how you really affect people's lives, fossil fuel is going to play a role in that." 
Now we all support electrification of rural villages. But where the heck did the sexual assault part come from? The Department of Energy wasn't really forthcoming. It just issued 

a statement saying that while Perry was in Africa "he was told how light can be a deterrent to sexual assault and can provide security in remote areas." 

Environmental groups quickly pointed out that there is a hefty sexual assault problem in places that have more electricity than they know what to do with. But let's be generous. 
Maybe he was still quoting that village girl. Do you really think she insisted that the light come from fossil fuels? Inquiring minds want to know. 
Rick Perry is an absolutely terrible secretary of energy. We all remember that he took the job without realizing that his central responsibility would be overseeing the safe 

handling of nuclear materials, a topic he knew nothing whatsoever about. Interested bystanders recalled sadly that Barack Obama's first secretary was a Nobel Prize-winning 
scientist and the second a nuclear physicist. 
On the other hand, Rick Perry once shot a coyote while jogging. 

He claims. 
Anyhow, Perry and Donald Trump are of one mind about the Department of Energy's new mission, which is making our nation "energy dominant." Once it was all about energy 
independence, and that's going pretty well, thanks to solar and wind power and natural gas. Now, the administration's obsession is to find new ways to market our fossil fuels, 
including an increasingly large amount of excess oil. 

Perry's the perfect person for the job. This is a man who once explained that the law of supply and demand is: "You put the supply out there and the demand will follow." 

So off he went to Africa, which is pretty much the last place in the world that needs more fossil fuels. There's already a heck of a lot of coal and oil there, but it's not doing poor 
villagers any good. 
"Fossil fuels and the grid approach have had their reign for a hundred years now, and there are still a billion people without electricity," said Kristina Skierka of Power for All, a 

global campaign for universal energy access. 

And even if a grid did arrive, Skierka pointed out, the little girl would still be reading by the firelight since rural African transmission lines tend to be down more often than 
they're working. 
An obvious answer is solar power. "It's similar to cellphones," said Michael Brune of the Sierra Club. "You don't have to build a new grid. You can just use solar power plus 

batteries and bring power to a community -- not just much more cheaply but much more quickly." 

Wow, the little village girl could put a solar cell on the roof and power a battery for her reading light. And no pollution. That's exactly the kind of thinking that drives Perry nuts. 
So there he was in Cape Town, spreading the faith and urging his audience to break the "culture of shame" around oil and coal. 
Africa was actually the worst place possible for an American official to be waving the fossil fuel flag. Climate scientists expect it to be particularly hard hit by global warming, 

with expanding droughts on one hand and flooding on the other. 
Perry has generally tried to avoid picking fights when it comes to the science of global warming -- although he did once, in a presidential debate, appear to be comparing 
climate change deniers to Galileo. His bottom line is basically that whatever is going on, it should not have any impact on the continued consumption of oil and coal. 

"If you admit you support fossil fuels, it's like saying you've made some huge social error," he complained in Cape Town. 
America is having economic success with wind and solar energy, but the energy secretary acts like they're evil stepchildren. (While he's proposed subsidizing the coal industry, he's backing a tariff on the importation of low-cost solar panels.) He goes to a continent that's worried about turning into a desert, and he whines about how people are being mean to the fossil fuels. 
Does that sound like a good plan? Well, nobody ever accused him of being a nuclear physicist. 
I invite you to join me on Facebook. 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 
Copyright New York Times Company Nov 4, 2017 
Subject 	Solar energy; 
Alternative energy sources; 

Fossil fuels; 
Light; 
Sex crimes; 

Climate change; 
Coal; 
Energy policy 


Location 	Africa; South Africa; United States--US 
People 	Trump, Donald J; Perry, Rick 
Company / organization 	Name: Department of Energy 

NAICS: 926130 


Title 	Rick Perry's Strange Sex Story: Commentary 
Author 	Collins, Gail 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.22 
Publication year 	2017 
Publication date 	Nov 4, 2017 
column 	Op-Ed Columnist 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	General Interest Periodicals--United States 
ISSN 	03624331 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	Commentary 
ProQuest document ID 	1959525713 
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1959525713?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Nov 4, 2017  
Last updated  2017-11-06  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 219 of 236 


For Climate Conference, a Sales Pitch on Fossil Fuels: [National Desk] 
Friedman, Lisa.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]03 Nov 2017: A.12. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=For+Climate+Conference%2C+a+Sales+Pitch+on+Fossil+Fuels%3A+%5BNation 11-03&volume=&issue=&spage=A.12&au=Friedman%2C+Lisa&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- The Trump administration will promote coal, natural gas and nuclear energy as an answer to climate change at a presentation during a United Nations global warming conference this month, the White House confirmed Thursday. 
The program is billed as a discussion of how American energy resources, particularly fossil fuels, can help poor countries meet electricity needs and drive down greenhouse gas emissions. Entitled "The Role of Cleaner and More Efficient Fossil Fuels and Nuclear Power in Climate Mitigation," it will feature speakers from Peabody Energy, a coal company; NuScale Power, a nuclear engineering firm; and Tellurian, a liquefied natural gas exporter. 
"As the world seeks to reduce emissions while promoting economic prosperity, fossil fuels will continue to play a central role in the energy mix," a preview of the Nov. 13 presentation says. 
The program is likely to provoke strong reactions at the United Nations conference gathering in Bonn, Germany, beginning on Monday for two weeks of negotiations on ways to keep rising global temperatures from reaching catastrophic levels. Most climate experts contend that the world must shift from fossil fuels to cleaner alternatives to meet emissions targets. Nuclear power, which does not produce earth-warming emissions, is viewed with skepticism by many environmental activists, who say its dangers outweigh its benefits. 
No major funding announcements are expected during the event. Delegates from 195 countries will gather in Bonn from Nov. 6-17 to work on a "rule book" for implementation of the Paris agreement. 
According to new figures put out by the U.S. Energy Information Administration, coal production has risen since President Trump took office -- a fact Mr. Trump highlighted late Tuesday in a tweet. 
President Trump has vowed to withdraw from the Paris agreement, calling it "a deal that punishes the United States." But under the rules of the deal, the United States cannot actually withdraw until 2020. Until then, the administration has said, it will continue to work toward bringing the Paris agreement into force. 
Barry K. Worthington, executive director of the United States Energy Association, who will speak on the panel, said he hoped to deliver a dose of reality about the future of fossil fuels at a forum dominated by activists demanding the end of coal, oil and gas. He argued "no credible projection" shows fossil fuels meeting less than 40 percent of global energy demand by midcentury. 
Mr. Worthington said he expected that delivering that message before climate change activists would be a "horrible experience" but it is important for many to hear. 
"The reality of it is the world is going to continue to use fossil fuels," he said, "and if I can throw myself on the hand grenade to help people realize that, I'm willing to do it." 
George David Banks, special assistant to President Trump for international energy and environment, will give introductory remarks and Francis Brooke, an aide to Vice President Mike Pence, will moderate the discussion among industry executives. 
"This discussion is a follow-up to the Administration's success at the G20, where the United States expressed its support for helping countries meet their climate objectives through the use of cleaner and more efficient fossil fuels and other clean energy sources and technologies," a White House spokesman, Raj Shah, said in a statement. "It is undeniable that fossil fuels will be used for the foreseeable future, and it is in everyone's interest that they be efficient and clean. Through innovation, the United States continues to be a global leader in cutting carbon emissions." 
The administration's emphasis on fossil fuels represents a sharp break from the Obama administration, which focused almost exclusively on ways America can promote renewable energy abroad. Critics called it a poke in the eye of the international community. 
"It's embarrassing," said Senator Brian Schatz of Hawaii, a Democrat. "After forfeiting international leadership on climate, the Trump White House is compounding their error with a silly stunt. Fossil fuel companies are not clean energy companies, and no amount of spin will change that." 
Saleemul Huq, director of the International Centre for Climate Change and Development in Bangladesh, who helps advise the least developed countries in the United Nations climate talks, said fossil fuels were hurting, not helping, the world's poorest nations. 
"Any country or company continuing to champion further exploration for and mining of coal and even other fossil fuels from now on would be willfully carrying out a crime against humanity, and they would be held accountable," he said. 
Follow @NYTClimate on Twitter 

Photograph 
A Globe at the Site of Next Week's United Nations Climate Conference in Bonn, Germany. (Photograph by Sascha Steinbach/European Pressphoto Agency) 
Copyright New York Times Company Nov 3, 2017 
Subject  Fossil fuels; Emissions; Clean technology; Engineering firms; Presidents; Paris Agreement; Energy industry; Climate change; Coal; Natural gas; Global warming; Energy policy  
Location  United States--US  
People  Trump, Donald J  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Peabody Energy Corp 212112;  
Name: NAICS:  United States Energy Association 926130;  
Name: NAICS:  United Nations--UN 928120;  
Name: NAICS:  NuScale Power Inc 332410  
Title  For Climate Conference, a Sales Pitch on Fossil Fuels: [National Desk]  
Author  Friedman, Lisa  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.12  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Nov 3, 2017  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  

ProQuest document ID  1959051134  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1959051134?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Nov 3, 2017  
Last updated  2017-11-03  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 220 of 236 


Trump, Niger And Making Dots Connect: Commentary 
Friedman, Thomas L.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]01 Nov 2017: A.25. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Trump%2C+Niger+And+Making+Dots+Connect%3A+Commentary&title=New 11-01&volume=&issue=&spage=A.25&au=Friedman%2C+Thomas+L&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
It is easy to ignore the recent story of four U.S. servicemen killed in Niger, the giant state in central Africa, because the place is so remote and the circumstances still so murky. That would be a mistake. Niger highlights a much larger problem -- just how foolish, how flat-out dumb President Trump is behaving. 
Trump is a person who doesn't connect dots -- even when they're big, fat polka dots that are hard to miss. Rather, he thinks inside narrow little boxes built from his own simplistic impulses and applause lines -- and that tendency is leading us into a web of contradictions abroad. Niger is a perfect example. 
I know something about Niger because I did a documentary there last year for National Geographic's "Years of Living Dangerously" climate series and wrote several columns about it for The Times. To understand why groups affiliated with ISIS and Al Qaeda are popping up in that region of central Africa, you have to connect a lot of dots, and recognize the linkages between a number of different problems -- not just say, in effect: There are bad guys there. I will call "my generals." They will kill them. I will take credit. 
As defense systems expert Lin Wells once put it: To ameliorate problems in places like Niger, you must never think in the box. You must never think out of the box. "You must always think without a box." 
Why? Because what is destabilizing all of these countries in the Sahel region of Africa and spawning terrorist groups is a cocktail of climate change, desertification -- as the Sahara steadily creeps south -- population explosions and misgovernance. 
Desertification is the trigger, and climate change and population explosions are the amplifiers. The result is a widening collapse of small-scale farming, the foundation of societies all over Africa. And that collapse is leading to a rising tide of "economic migrants, interethnic conflicts and extremism," Monique Barbut, who heads the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification and guided me in Niger, explained. 
A few numbers: Niger, with rampant poverty and poor access to contraception, has one the highest birthrates in the world: 7.6 children per woman. I met a man there who boasted of 17 kids. Neighboring Nigeria is growing so fast it will replace the U.S. as the third-most-populous country in the world by 2050. Nigeria is a third bigger than Texas. 
Meanwhile, climate change in the region is so severe that nearby Senegal's national weather bureau says that from 1950 to 2015, the average temperature there rose two degrees Celsius and the average annual rainfall declined by about two inches. The Paris climate accord was designed to keep global average temperatures from rising two degrees Celsius above preindustrial levels by 2100. 
In other words, parts of sub-Saharan Africa are already at heat levels that Paris was supposed to prevent by the end of the century -- and the region is heading for a four-degree rise, which will lead to the collapse of even more small farms and lead to a mad scramble of refugees toward Europe, competition for food and more unemployed males ready to join ISIS for $50 a month. 
Barbut, as I reported, reinforced her point by showing me three maps of Africa with dots concentrated in the middle of the continent. Map No. 1: the most vulnerable regions of desertification in 2008. Map No. 2: conflicts and food riots in 2007 and 2008. Map No. 3: terrorist attacks in 2012. All the dots of all three maps cluster around Niger and its neighbors. Hello? 
And what is Trump's response to this reality? It's to focus solely on using the U.S. military to kill terrorists in Africa while offering a budget that eliminates U.S. support for global contraception programs; appointing climate-change deniers to all key environmental posts; pushing coal over clean energy; and curbing U.S. government climate research. 
In short, he's sending soldiers to fight a problem that is clearly being exacerbated by climate and population trends, while eliminating all our tools to mitigate these trends. 
That's just stupid, reckless and irresponsible -- and it evinces no ability to connect the dots or think without a box. 
But this is not only in Africa: Trump was obsessed with defeating ISIS in Syria and Iraq -- but with as few U.S. troops as possible. The only way he could do that was by tacitly allying with Iran, Syria's regime, Russia, pro-Iranian Shiite militias, and pro-U.S. Kurds, who were the main anti-ISIS forces on the ground. We could not defeat ISIS or stabilize Syria and Iraq without all of them. 
And what is Trump's strategy now? I have no clue. We've distanced ourselves from the Kurds, moved to tear up the nuclear deal with Iran and added U.S. troops in Afghanistan, a country we also can't stabilize without the tacit help of Iran next door. If you know how these dots connect, please write. 
Also: How do we stabilize our border with Mexico and maintain our neighbor's cooperation in holding back the main source of illegal immigration today -- refugees from Central America -- while pursuing trade policies that have weakened the Mexican peso and the Mexican economy and could lead that country to elect its own anti-American populist-nationalist? 
Nothing Trump ever says has a second paragraph. His whole shtick is just a first paragraph: Build a wall, tear up the Iran deal, tear up TPP, defeat ISIS, send troops to Niger and Afghanistan to kill terrorists, kill climate policy, kill family planning, cut taxes, raise military spending. Every box just marks an applause line he needed somewhere to get elected. Nothing connects -- and we will pay for that. 
Indeed, if you want to know what it looks like when a country follows a leader with no second paragraph and no ability to connect dots, visit London. I was there last week. Britain's political system is in turmoil and its economy is facing declining growth prospects, because a bare majority voted to follow leaders with no second paragraph -- we'll just quit the European Union and everything will be fine, they said. 
Well, now it's a fine little mess they have. The ruling Conservatives have no clue how to quit the E.U. without doing even more damage to their country's future. That's what happens when you vote for "disrupters" who never spent a second thinking through how all of their disruptions connect the morning after the morning after. 
Sound familiar? 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 
Frank Bruni is off today. 
Copyright New York Times Company Nov 1, 2017 
Subject 	Terrorism; 
Trends; 
Environmental policy; 
Climate change; 
Deserts; 
Heat; 
Land degradation; 
Births 


Location 	United States--US; Niger; Senegal; Sahel; Sub-Saharan Africa 
People 	Trump, Donald J 
Company / organization 	Name: Al Qaeda 

NAICS: 813940; 

Name: National Geographic NAICS: 511120 
Title 	Trump, Niger And Making Dots Connect: Commentary 
Author 	Friedman, Thomas L 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.25 
Publication year 	2017 
Publication date 	Nov 1, 2017 
column 	Op-Ed Columnist 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	General Interest Periodicals--United States 
ISSN 	03624331 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1958121266  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1958121266?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Nov 1, 2017  
Last updated  2017-11-01  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 221 of 236 


Green in Gramercy: [Real Estate Desk] 
Hughes, C J.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]29 Oct 2017: RE.10. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Green+in+Gramercy%3A+%5BReal+Estate+Desk%5D&title=New+York+Times& 10-29&volume=&issue=&spage=RE.10&au=Hughes%2C+C+J&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
If the construction boom of a decade ago had a tint, it might have been green, as developers hustled to make their buildings as eco-friendly as possible. 
Energy efficiency has not seemed as much of a priority during the current development wave, according to brokers, builders and designers, but there also may not be as much 
of an audience for it. At least, the marketing campaigns of recent condos rarely seem to tout environmental bona fides. 
Yet Alfa Development, a firm that jumped on the green bandwagon early, does not seem ready to jump off just yet. 
Since 2007, when Alfa broke ground on its Village Green project, the firm has constructed a total of four climate-change-conscious condos. And it is now at work on a fifth, 200 

East 21st Street, at Third Avenue, a 20-story, 67-unit building near Gramercy Park with low-energy appliances, sustainably grown lumber and windmill-generated electricity. 

"Unfortunately, just a handful of us are doing it, and it's shameful," said Michael Namer, Alfa's chief executive officer. He added that the multiple hurricanes that have rocked the 
United States and the Caribbean this year should be a reminder that climate change is real, and dangerous. 
Alfa hopes to earn a gold award for this building under LEED certification, the country's most recognized seal of approval for green buildings, and to do so without sacrificing 

style. 

The East 21st Street building, which is scheduled to open at the end of 2018, has a facade that is made of gray, thinner-than-usual bricks, a material that has become 
increasingly trendy in residential buildings. Windows, meanwhile, are framed in bronze, and patterned black-and-white marble lines the lobby's floor. 
While green touches are prevalent throughout the condo, which has one- to four-bedrooms, they are not always obvious. For instance, instead of using granite slabs quarried 

from a mountain for counters, Mr. Namer went with Caesarstone, a stone-and-resin product that he said does not take as much of a chunk out of the earth. 
Similarly, the boards used for the floors came from oak trees that were selectively cut, and not clear-cut in a way that might devastate a forest. 
Appliances at 200 East 21st are from Miele, which gets strong reviews from Energy Star, a product ratings system. In addition, the condo developer chose to get electricity not 

from coal or oil, but from wind power -- a more expensive but cleaner option, while hot water is mostly heated by dozens of solar panels on the roof. The condo's eco-features 

did not significantly raise construction costs, Mr. Namer said. 
The developer hopes that besides reducing energy consumption, those features will also give a marketing edge to the building. "The competition is basically zero in this realm," 
said Justin Tuinstra, a salesman with Douglas Elliman Development Marketing, which is handling sales. 

Prices average $2,200 a square foot, or starting at $1.45 million for a one-bedroom, while the penthouse, with four bedrooms and 1,800 square feet of outdoor space, is about 

$12 million, Mr. Tuinstra said. 
In the Gramercy Park neighborhood, the average price of co-ops and condos for sale in mid-October was $3.07 million, according to StreetEasy.com; among the 49 units in new 
developments, the average was $3.18 million. 

Most of those new apartments are clustered in just two projects. There is 121 East 22nd Street, a 133-unit condo with prices that average $2,200 a square foot, according to 

StreetEasy, and Gramercy Square, a 223-unit four-building complex east of Third Avenue, where prices average between $2,100 and $2,400 a square foot. 
Alfa's green track record is long. The 36-unit Village Green, at 311 East 11th Street in the East Village, was followed by the 51-unit Chelsea Green, at 151 West 21st Street. 
After, came the 27-unit Village Green West, at 245 West 14th Street, and the 11-unit 199 Mott Street, in NoLIta. 

But the firm doesn't have a lot of company right now. Searching online listings for green buildings yields just a handful of apartments, and it is not always clear which eco­
friendly features are offered. 
Then again, this may reflect building codes. They have gotten so much more "aggressive," forcing landlords to make changes whether they wanted to or not, said John Haugen, 
a founder of Third Partners, a four-year-old consulting firm that has worked with landlords on green initiatives. (The firm is not affiliated with the East 21st Street project.) 

Buyers in some ways can take small carbon footprints for granted, he said. For instance, developers seem to have almost universally embraced light bulbs that last a long time, 
like LEDs, which offer obvious cost savings, he said. 
Indeed, at 200 East 21st Street, in addition to using them in common spaces, Alfa has offered a free lifetime supply of the bulbs to any buyer. 

"There's really no excuse to not have them now," Mr. Haugen said of the bulbs. "It's just a no-brainer." 
For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow us on Twitter: @nytrealestate. 

Photograph 
Above, a Rendering of the New 20-Story Tower at 200 East 21st Street, Which Will Use Low-Energy Appliances and Windmill-Generated Electricity. At Left, a Rendering of an Interior. (Photographs by Alfa Development) 
Copyright New York Times Company Oct 29, 2017 
Subject 	Marketing; 
Prices; 

Green buildings; 

Electricity; 
Condominiums 


Location 	United States--US 
Title 	Green in Gramercy: [Real Estate Desk] 
Author 	Hughes, C J 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	RE.10 
Publication year 	2017 
Publication date 	Oct 29, 2017 
column 	The High End 
Section 	RE 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	General Interest Periodicals--United States 
ISSN 	03624331 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	News 
ProQuest document ID 	1956805847 
Document URL 	https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1956805847?accountid=14902 
Copyright 	Copyright New York Times Company Oct 29, 2017 
Last updated 	2017-10-29 
Database 	Global Newsstream 
document 222 of 236 


The Trump Doctrine: Commentary 
Friedman, Thomas L.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]18 Oct 2017: A.27. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=The+Trump+Doctrine%3A+Commentary&title=New+York+Times&issn=03624 10-18&volume=&issue=&spage=A.27&au=Friedman%2C+Thomas+L&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Well, it took almost a year, but we now have the "Trump Doctrine." It's very simple. And, as you'd expect, it fits neatly into a tweet. On nearly every major issue, President Trump's position is: "Obama built it. I broke it. You fix it." 
And that cuts right to the core of what is the most frightening thing about the Trump presidency. It's not the president's juvenile tweeting or all the aides who've been pushed out of his clown car at high speed or his industrial-strength lying. 
It's Trump's willingness to unravel so many longstanding policies and institutions at once -- from Nafta to Obamacare to the global climate accord to the domestic clean power initiative to the Pacific trade deal to the Iran nuclear deal -- without any real preparation either on the day before or for the morning after. 
Indeed, Trump has made most of his climate, health, energy and economic decisions without consulting any scientists, without inviting into the White House a broad range of experts, without putting forth his own clear-cut alternatives to the systems he's unraveling, without having at the ready a team of aides or a political coalition able to implement any alternatives and without a strategic framework that connects all of his dots. 
In short, we're simply supposed to take the president's word that this or that deal "is the worst deal ever" -- backed up by no serious argument or plan about how he will produce a better one. 
I'm open to improving any of these accords or institutions. I'm even open to the possibility that by just tipping over all these accords at once, and throwing away his steering wheel, Trump will get people to improve the Iran deal or Obamacare out of sheer panic at the chaos that might ensue if they don't. 
But I am equally open to the possibility that unraveling all of these big systems at once -- health, energy, geopolitics -- without a clear plan or a capable team will set in motion chain reactions, some of them long term, that Trump has not thought through in the least. Moreover, when you break big systems, which, albeit imperfectly, have stabilized regions, environments or industries for decades, it can be very difficult to restore them. 
Question: We're told by our secretary of state that he's been engaged in some secret contacts with North Korea, exploring the possibility of a diplomatic solution that might dramatically reduce North Korea's nuclear arsenal in return for U.S. promises of regime security. If, at the same time, Trump unilaterally pulls out of the deal we've already signed with Iran to prevent it from developing nukes -- and Trump moves to reimpose sanctions -- how does that not send only one message to the North Koreans: No deal with the U.S. is worth the paper it's written on, so you'd be wise to hold on to all your nukes? 
Question: Iran controls tens of thousands of Shiite militiamen in Iraq and Syria who were our tacit allies in defeating ISIS. Tehran also has huge influence over Iraq's government and over certain regions of Afghanistan as well. Can we stabilize Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan -- post-ISIS -- and keep our troop presence low and safe, without Iran's help -- and will that help be coming after Trump rips up the nuclear deal? If you think so, please raise your hand. 
And since our European allies as well as Russia and China have indicated that they will not follow us in backing out of the Iran deal or reimposing sanctions, Iran would have all the moral high ground and money it needs, and the U.S. would be isolated. Are we going to sanction E.U. banks if they deal with Iran? 
Trump came into office vowing to end the trade imbalance with China -- a worthy goal. And what was his first move? To tear up the Trans-Pacific Partnership, the trade deal that would have put the U.S. at the helm of a 12-nation trading bloc built around U.S. interests and values, potentially eliminating some 18,000 tariffs on U.S. goods and controlling 40 percent of global G.D.P. And China was not in the group. That's called leverage. 
Trump just ripped up the TPP to "satisfy the base" and is now left begging China for trade crumbs, with little leverage. And because he needs China's help in dealing with North Korea, he has even less leverage on trade. 
Trump pulled the U.S. out of the Paris climate accord and, at the same time, restricted U.S. government funding for birth control both at home and abroad. Question: What is driving so many immigrants and refugees in Africa, the Middle East and Central America to try to get out of their world of disorder and into America and Europe and the world order? 
Answer: It is a cocktail of climate change, environmental degradation, population explosions and misgovernance in these countries. So Trump's policy is to throw away every tool we have to mitigate climate change and population growth and try to build a wall instead, while also trying to bully Mexico's unpopular president into trade concessions, which could help elect a radical populist in next year's Mexican election -- a successor who would be anti-American -- and destabilize its economy as well. 
At a time when China has decided to go full-bore into clean tech and electric cars, at a time when all of the tech giants are building data centers that they want powered by clean energy, at a time when solar and wind power are growing increasingly competitive with fossil fuels (and America still has a technological lead in many of these areas), at a 
time when climate change may be stimulating bigger hurricanes and forest fires that are costing us hundreds of billions of dollars, Trump's central energy initiative is to reverse 
Obama's and bring back coal-fired power. 
None of these dots connect. And we will pay for that. "Whiplash" was a great movie. But it's a terrible organizing principle for our foreign or domestic policy. 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 
Copyright New York Times Company Oct 18, 2017 

Subject  Presidents;  
Sanctions;  
Climate change;  
Lying;  
International relations-US;  
Presidency;  
Policy making;  
Politics;  
Public policy;  
Foreign policy  
Location  United States--US  
People  Trump, Donald J  
Title  The Trump Doctrine: Commentary  
Author  Friedman, Thomas L  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.27  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Oct 18, 2017  
column  Op-Ed Columnist  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1951809908  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1951809908?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Oct 18, 2017  
Last updated  2017-11-24  

Database Global Newsstream 
document 223 of 236 


U.S. Boom in Natural Gas Could Ripple From the Arctic to Africa: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Krauss, Clifford.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]18 Oct 2017: B.3. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=U.S.+Boom+in+Natural+Gas+Could+Ripple+From+the+Arctic+to+Africa%3A+% 10-18&volume=&issue=&spage=B.3&au=Krauss%2C+Clifford&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
HOUSTON -- A shale gas drilling boom over the last decade has propelled the United States from energy importer to exporter, taking the country a giant leap toward the goal of energy independence declared by presidents for half a century. 
Now the upheaval of the domestic energy sector is going global. A swell of gas in liquefied form shipped from Texas and Louisiana is descending on global markets, producing a broader glut and lower energy prices. 
The United States was supposed to be a big L.N.G. importer, not a world class exporter. The frenzy of drilling in shale gas fields across the country changed that over the last decade, creating a glut far larger than domestic demand could possibly consume. Companies that spent billions of dollars to build import platforms suddenly had useless facilities until they spent billions more to convert them for export. 
The switch will remake the global gas market for decades to come. Energy experts are predicting that the transformation will weaken Russia's dominance over European power markets, help clean the air in cities across China and India by replacing the burning of coal and eventually provide cheaper and cleaner fuel to African villages. 
The full dimensions of the wave over the next four or five years, including its impact on the environment and climate change, are hard to predict, in part because they will depend on the policies adopted by many governments. But as several American multibillion-dollar export terminals come on line, few doubt that the influence of more gas, as the cleanest burning fossil fuel, will be consequential for powerful and poor countries alike. 
Mexico Could Be a Model 
Experts point to Mexico as an example of how transformative gas can be in a matter of only a few years. As the American shale boom accelerated, producing more gas than its northern neighbor could consume, Mexico decided to import as much cheap gas as possible. Mexico replaced its dirtier burning coal and petroleum products, and now more than a quarter of the country's electricity is powered by American gas. 
Four additional cross-border pipelines are to be completed over the next two years, and many more are in the planning phase. The gas imports have improved air quality, helped Mexico reach goals to reduce its carbon footprint to meet Paris climate agreement targets and freed capital to invest in more exploration and production of oil, which is more valuable on world markets. 
Because Mexico has a border close to Texas oil and gas fields, pipelines have made the transformation relatively easy. Exporting and importing liquefied gas is more complicated. Gas is expensive to ship overseas because it must be cooled to minus 260 degrees, condensing it to what is called liquefied natural gas, or L.N.G., to be shipped in giant tankers. The importing country then has to turn the liquid back into gas so it can be transported by pipelines. But even though liquefied gas is usually more expensive than piped gas or even coal, demand and supplies are growing fast. 
"This bulge of L.N.G. is going to completely upset the apple cart of world energy politics and the global competition of fuels that is still hard for people to comprehend," said Amy Myers Jaffe, an energy security expert at the Council on Foreign Relations. "Russia will be the loser. We can already see their leverage on the gas market in Europe and the leverage they are trying to create over China dissipating." 
Enough L.N.G. export capacity is under construction to catapult it from 33 percent to nearly 40 percent of the total international gas trade by 2022, even while piped gas shipments are also growing globally. 
Roughly 60 percent of the new L.N.G. export capacity is being built in the United States, which only began exporting large supplies last year, giving Washington a new tool for its foreign policy toolbox and raising the country to the top tier of exporters, which includes Qatar, Australia and Russia. 
Lithuania became the first former Soviet republic to import a shipment of American natural gas in August, a symbolic move that came as Washington pledged to reduce the dependency of Europe on Russia, which has been known to use gas as a political weapon. 
The Lithuania shipment came only a month after Poland became the first Eastern European country to import American gas. Russia has already been forced to lower its gas prices to Europe in an attempt to diminish European thirst for American gas. That effort has cost Russian companies revenues and made expansion of L.N.G. facilities in the Arctic less economically feasible. 
Russia has gained European market share, in large part because North Sea and Dutch production are declining. But energy experts say that the United States will surely cut into Russian market share with its new L.N.G. exports because Europe is alarmed by President Vladimir Putin's aggression against Ukraine and interference in the elections of several Western democracies. There are few ways to punish Russia more than reducing its energy revenues, which account for nearly half of the Kremlin's budget and spreads political benefits to President Putin's powerful cronies. 
"Forcing Russia to compete in a more competitive gas market in Europe and giving European consumers alternative sources of supply significantly weakens Russia's geopolitical influence in Europe," said Jason Bordoff, who was a senior energy adviser to President Obama and is now director of Columbia University's Center on Global Energy Policy. "The transition of the U.S. to one of the world's largest gas exporters has very significant economic, environmental and geopolitical implications." 
L.N.G. Skeptics in Europe 
Europeans tend to be suspicious of hydrocarbons like gas, and especially the hydraulic fracturing methods that coax gas from hard shale rock, much preferring renewables. Many skeptics in Europe and the United States note that the production and transport of gas can leak methane, a powerful greenhouse gas, making it less reliable as an environmental solution. 
Natural gas consumption in Europe had been declining in recent years as the continent moved strongly to renewables and as some countries also burned more cheap coal to replace nuclear. But demand for gas rebounded in 2015 and 2016, principally at the expense of coal. 
The United Kingdom may be leading the way, with carbon pricing and other policies designed to phase out coal power by 2025, thus giving gas a big opening. For most of the other big economies, gas is a supplement, especially in France when its nuclear plant fleet needs repairs as it did in 2016. German gas-fired power plants that were dormant in 2015 have come back on. 
Oil company executives with a stake in natural gas say gas is a perfect complement to Europe's push for renewable energy, by maintaining power when the sun does not shine or the wind does not blow. 
"Increasingly, European countries are seeing that they do need gas-fired power generation to balance out renewables," said Tor Martin, senior vice president for marketing and supply at Statoil, the Norwegian oil and gas company that is also investing in offshore wind power. 
The biggest increase in demand for liquefied natural gas will come from China and India, as their growing middle classes demand more power and as their industries grow. 
The International Energy Agency estimates an annual growth rate of 8.7 percent in Chinese gas consumption through 2022. 
Gas is more expensive than coal in China, but the government is phasing out coal-fired boilers and switching to gas-fired ones, principally to help relieve air contamination in Beijing and other cities. The government is aiming to replace coal in textile factories. 
Under the country's five-year economic plan, through 2020, gas is the only fossil fuel that is supposed to increase its share in the energy consumption mix for heating, cooling and even commercial truck fleets -- from 6 percent to up to 10 percent by 2020. Cheaper L.N.G. could also offset China's future dependence on piped Russian gas and force Russian companies to lower prices to stay competitive. 
In India, the energy agency projects an average growth of 6 percent annually of gas through 2022, in part driven by cheaper L.N.G. deliveries. Demand for it could increase by 11 percent annually. 
"In many cases the increased use of gas, particularly in some of the importing markets in Asia, has the potential to displace coal, so it can play a very positive role in mitigating the growth of emissions," said Tim Gould, a senior energy analyst at the energy agency. 
L.N.G. Importers Grow Rapidly 
Only 15 countries imported liquefied gas in 2005. Twelve years later it has more than tripled, with such major economies as Pakistan, Thailand, Jordan, Egypt, Poland and Colombia becoming importers in the last few years. 
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Ghana, Haiti, Namibia, Panama, the Philippines and Uruguay are building import terminals, according to the International Energy Agency. 
At the same time, gas demand for public transport is growing in Iran, Pakistan and Argentina. 
Germany has largely given up on nuclear power, and it needs natural gas without Russian strings to replace some of the lost power. African countries are beginning to deploy offshore modular terminals to import gas, which should help deliver power to rural villages, although the lack of pipelines will slow the process. 
Even Saudi Arabia is looking to invest in export terminals around the world to import gas to replace some of the oil the country burns for power. 
Such an investment, which could come with the initial public offering of Saudi Aramco planned for next year, could free significantly more oil on global markets. 
Many countries see the replacement by gas of coal and heating oil as a relatively painless way to reduce their carbon footprint, especially if potential methane leakage can be addressed. But many environmentalists say gas is only useful as a bridge fuel to a new age of renewables, if the bridge is short. 
Major oil companies are understandably bullish on gas in the hope that it extends their economic sustainability as the world moves to new, cleaner energy. 
"In the near term, gas will replace coal, in the medium term it will partner with renewables," said Maarten Wetselaar, director of integrated gas and new energies at Royal Dutch Shell, "and in the long term it will take care of those parts of energy demand that cannot be electrified," such as ships and aircraft. 

Photograph 
A Liquefied Natural Gas Tanker Arriving in Klaipeda, Lithuania, in 2014. The Terminal Provides an Alternative to Russian Gas Imports. (Photograph by Petras Malukas/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 
Copyright New York Times Company Oct 18, 2017 
Subject 	Geopolitics; 
Consumption; 
Fossil fuels; 
Power; 

International relations; 
Environmental impact; 
Exports; 

Energy industry; 

Market shares; 
Coal; 

Pipelines; Natural gas 
Location  Texas; Mexico; Russia; United States--US; Arctic region; India; China; Europe  
Title  U.S. Boom in Natural Gas Could Ripple From the Arctic to Africa: [Business/Financial Desk]  
Author  Krauss, Clifford  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.3  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Oct 18, 2017  
column  Oil and Money  
Section  B  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1951809716  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1951809716?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Oct 18, 2017  
Last updated  2017-11-25  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 224 of 236 


5 Climate Truths Mr. Trump Doesn't Get: [Editorial] 
New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]16 Oct 2017: A.20. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=5+Climate+Truths+Mr.+Trump+Doesn%27t+Get%3A+%5BEditorial%5D&title 10-16&volume=&issue=&spage=A.20&au=&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
"Trump Digs Coal" read the signs during the campaign, and Donald Trump promised he would be "an unbelievable positive" for the miners. Now he's trying to deliver by repealing the Obama-era Clean Power Plan and proposing to subsidize coal-fired power plants. These moves are, in fact, unbelievable: Not only are they a setback in the fight against climate change, but they also make no economic sense, since the cost of renewable energy is falling sharply. 
1. President Trump can't save coal. He only claims he can. 
On Tuesday, the Environmental Protection Agency published its proposal to undo the Clean Power Plan without putting anything in its place. The plan was one of the most important parts of former President Barack Obama's commitment under the Paris climate agreement to cut United States greenhouse gas emissions by 26 percent to 28 percent below 2005 levels by 2025. The plan was meant to accelerate emission reductions in the power sector. 
Earlier, Mr. Trump's energy secretary, Rick Perry, asked the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to come up with rules that would require businesses, consumers and anybody else who uses the electricity grid to pay coal-fired plants to be ready to supply power whether that energy was needed or not. He claims such payments will make the grid more "resilient" -- many experts doubt that. 
Taken together, these proposals are a brazen attempt to promote one source of energy over others -- a criticism that conservatives often lobbed at Mr. Obama for his attempts to do something about climate change. In fact, tied up in court, the Clean Power Plan has not even gone into effect. 
2.
 Natural gas is beating coal. 

Coal has been falling out of favor because utilities are switching to natural gas, which has become much cheaper in recent years thanks to a boom in shale production. 

3.
 Renewable energy is coming on strong. 

The worldwide average cost of wind and solar power has fallen sharply over the last three years, according to a recent report by the International Energy Agency. While these sources of energy make up a small portion of the overall system -- for example, about 15 percent of electricity generated in the United States last year and 24 percent generated worldwide -- they are growing fast: Two-thirds of generation capacity added globally last year came from renewable sources. 

4.
 Wind and solar are becoming cheaper every year. 


In some countries like India, the United Arab Emirates, Mexico and Chile, auction prices for renewable energy have fallen so much that they are "comparable or lower than generation cost of newly built gas and coal power plants," according to the agency, which researches the energy sector for 29 member countries, including the United States. Based on current trends, the agency forecasts that the cost of land-based wind turbines and utility-size solar projects will fall an additional 15 percent and 25 percent, respectively, in the next five years. 
In the United States, developers of new wind farms signed contracts to sell power at around $20 per megawatt-hour last year, down from about $61 per megawatt-hour in 2010, according to a recent report by the Energy Department. 
That report also points out that these prices are lower than those for electricity from natural gas plants and are expected to stay that way for years to come. That's because wind power contracts lock in low prices for 20 years or longer, whereas the cost of natural gas fluctuates from day to day. Developers of wind farms -- and solar projects -- do receive federal tax credits, but those subsidies are being phased out and will be eliminated in 2020. 
5. Technical advances are making renewables more productive and reliable. 
Wind turbines and solar panels cannot produce electricity at all times in all weather conditions. But there have been great technical strides that have improved their performance. For example, modern wind turbines are much more productive than the turbines installed just one decade ago. 
What's more, batteries have become much cheaper, making it less expensive to store electricity when it's windy or sunny for times when it is not. The average cost of lithium-ion batteries fell 73 percent, to $273 per kilowatt-hour, between 2010 and 2016, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. 
The world needs to shift to renewables because they represent our best hope of avoiding the most calamitous consequences of climate change. Now, the economic case for these technologies is growing, too. 
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 
Credit: THE EDITORIAL BOARD 

Illustration 
PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEN SKLAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHARTS: Power sector CO emission projections; Average solar system prices; Megawatt-hours of electricity production, by energy source (Source: U.S. Energy Information Administration); Lithium-ion battery price 
Copyright New York Times Company Oct 16, 2017 
Subject  Turbines; Electricity; Emissions; Electricity distribution; Wind farms; Prices; Coal-fired power plants; Alternative energy sources; Renewable resources; Energy industry; Industrial plant emissions; Climate change; Natural gas; Editorials; Environmental policy  
Location  United States--US  
People  Trump, Donald J  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 924110;  
Name: NAICS:  International Energy Agency 541720, 926130, 928120;  
Name: NAICS:  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission--FERC 926110, 926130  
Title  5 Climate Truths Mr. Trump Doesn't Get: [Editorial]  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.20  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Oct 16, 2017  
column  Editorial  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  

Document type  Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  1951012916  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1951012916?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Oct 16, 2017  
Last updated  2017-11-25  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 225 of 236 


A Low-Carbon Diet for Investments: [SpecialSections] 
Gray, Tim.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]15 Oct 2017: BU.11. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=A+Low­Carbon+Diet+for+Investments%3A+%5BSpecialSections%5D&title=New+York+Times&issn=03624331&date=2017-10­15&volume=&issue=&spage=BU.11&au=Gray%2C+Tim&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
If you care about climate change, your money can help shrink your carbon footprint. You can buy appliances that are more energy efficient or a hybrid or electric car -- or, better yet, a bike. You can install thicker insulation in your home or solar panels on your roof. 
But investing in mutual and exchange-traded funds in ways that prioritize climate worries has been harder. Plenty of funds make environmental impact a factor in stock assessments, but few have proclaimed loudly that greenhouse gas emissions are a primary concern, and that has been a problem for investors committed to divesting from fossil fuels. 
The smog has begun to clear. A spate of stock funds and E.T.F.s has appeared over the past several years that shun major fossil-fuel producers, like oil drillers and coal miners, or those with excessive greenhouse gas emissions. Carbon dioxide, spewed out mainly by the burning of fossil fuel, accounts for most of such emissions, so these new offerings often call themselves "low carbon." 
Now there is a tool, the website Fossil Free Funds, that helps pinpoint funds and E.T.F.s focused on companies withsmaller carbon footprints. "There were 10 funds when we started that we identified as fossil-fuel free," said Andrew S. Behar, chief executive officer of As You Sow, the Oakland, Calif., environmental group that created Fossil Free Funds. "Now it's up to 31." 
Fossil Free Funds sprang from Mr. Behar's effort to determine the carbon footprints of the funds in As You Sow's own retirement plan. The exercise showed him how tough it was to piece together the needed information. So he and a colleague, Andrew Montes, created the website, which began in 2015. 
The site combines Morningstar data on stock holdings with screens like the Carbon Underground 200, a global index of coal, natural gas and oil companies. If a user types, say, "Vanguard's S.&P. 500 index fund" into the site's search box, a report is generated. That report shows that 21 companies, including Exxon Mobil and Chevron, and 4.28 percent of the fund's total assets overlap with the Carbon Underground 200. That means, of $10,000 invested in the fund, $428 will end up in fossil-fuel stocks. 
In contrast, the site's report on the SPDR S.&P. 500 Fossil Fuel Reserves Free E.T.F. shows no overlap. As the E.T.F.'s name suggests, that lack of fossil fuel overlap is intentional. 
"What this fund is doing is giving investors the S.&P. 500 minus companies that own reserves of crude oil, natural gas and thermal coal that are economically and technically recoverable," said Christopher C. McKnett, who leads environmental, social and governance strategy for State Street Global Advisors, the E.T.F.'s sponsor. The fund does not exclude reserves of metallurgical coal, which is used in the making of steel, but it does exclude utilities if they own their own reserves, he said. State Street created the E.T.F. for investors committed to divesting from fossil-fuel stocks, Mr. McKnett said. 
Another State Street offering, the SPDR MSCI ACWI Low Carbon Target E.T.F., takes a different approach. Rather than barring companies, it favors energy and utility companies with smaller fossil-fuel reserves and lower carbon emissions. The fund is designed to replicate the world market as closely as possible -- it invests globally, in developed and developing countries -- while still being low carbon, Mr. McKnett said. 
Blackrock's iShares MSCI ACWI Low Carbon Target E.T.F. is constructed similarly. Sarah Lee Kjellberg, head of iShares Sustainable E.T.F.s, said Blackrock created the fund partly at the request of institutional investors and financial advisers seeking a low-carbon offering that could serve as someone's core investment. "They're telling us, 'We're trying to strike a balance between providing market exposure and addressing the risk of climate change in our portfolios,"' she said. 
A newer low-carbon E.T.F., the Etho Climate Leadership E.T.F., ranks companies according to their carbon efficiency, based on emissions per dollar invested. "We start by analyzing 6,000 companies globally of all capitalization sizes and distill them down to leaders in each industry," said Ian E. Monroe, president and chief sustainability officer of Etho Capital, the fund's sponsor. Mr. Monroe said the goal was not just to ditch big carbon-belchers and fossil-fuel behemoths but also to identify better-run companies. The fund, which began in late 2015, beat the S.&P. 500 last year and so far has done so this year. 
Several long-established sponsors of socially screened funds can also help put your portfolio on low-carb diet. 
Dimensional Fund Advisors offers two funds that make emissions and fossil-fuel reserves central considerations: the US Sustainability Core 1 Portfolio and International Sustainability Core 1 Portfolio. "Sustainability means different things to different people," said Joseph H. Chi, the company's co-head of portfolio management. "But what we've found is a focus on carbon is one thing people agree on." 
When assembling the portfolios, Dimensional applies its usual financial metrics to companies, but it also assesses their emissions, Mr. Chi said. "Our approach is to rank companies both on an absolute basis and against their peers," he said. The portfolio managers then eliminate the those with the worst emissions, de-emphasize the lesser performers and overweight the better ones. Dimensional's one absolute climate-related exclusion is coal companies. 
The list of climate sinners is longer at Parnassus Investments and Green Century Capital Management, two specialists in so-called socially responsible funds. 
Both the Parnassus Fund and Parnassus Endeavor avoid companies involved in exploration, extraction, production, manufacturing or refining of fossil fuels. That effectively means the portfolio managers avoid the energy and utility sectors, said Ian E. Sexsmith, co-manager of the Parnassus Fund. They do this because some clients haveasked for fossil-free offerings and because of the managers' skepticism about the longer-term prospects of these industries, Mr. Sexsmith said. "As our world becomes more energy efficient and we get better at using alternatives," he said, "we think the energy sector is going to underperform." 
Green Century likewise tries to eliminate fossil-fuel companies from its Green Century Equity Fund and Green Century International Index Fund, said Leslie Samuelrich, Green Century's president. The funds, passively managed indexed offerings, impose hard exclusions on coal, gas and oil, companies and on any utility that burns coal. 
A group of environmental nonprofits started Green Century in 1991 and it has long avoided the fossil-fuel industry, but its marketing did not highlight that until recently. 
"We didn't use the words 'fossil fuel free' till five years ago," Ms. Samuelrich said. "But the demand started to pick up, and we realized we should tell people. So we started promoting that, and since then, our assets have more than doubled," lately reaching $491 million for the company's three funds. Green Century also has a balanced fund that contains bonds as well as stocks. 
The variety of low-carbon stock funds makes it easier for people to invest this way. Whether they should invest this way, from a financial standpoint, remains a subject of debate. Investment orthodoxy says that limiting your pool of investments stunts your potential return. 
Jon F. Hale, director of sustainability research at Morningstar, said he doubted that people with well-diversified portfolios would see much of an impact on performance if they replaced, say, a conventional domestic, large-capitalization fund with a low-carbon one. A diverse portfolio, he said, would include funds spanning domestic and international markets, large- and small-capitalization stocks and developed and developing countries. 
Mr. Hale said the returns of the low-carbon fund would not track the broader market: If the energy sector were to surge, the fund would probably underperform. But, he added, "There's a possibility of a positive return, too." That could happen if the world's economy continues to move toward greater energy efficiency and a greater reliance on renewable sources like wind and solar power. 
Personal values have a place in investment decisions, Mr. Hale said, adding that some people viewed divestment from coal, gas and oil as a matter of morals, not money. 
"I may be fine with the possibility of my portfolio performing a little less without fossil fuels because I want to add my voice to this movement or feel good about myself," he said. "I may be willing trade off some of the other investment benefits for that." 

Photograph 
Left, Andrew Behar Meeting with His Staff at As You Sow, an Environmental Group That has Created a Website to Help Identify Low-Carbon Funds. Right, a Meeting at Parnassus Investments in San Francisco This Past Spring. (Photographs by Christie Hemm Klok for the New York Times; Jason Henry for the New York Times) (Bu12) Charts: Third-Quarter Mutual Fund Returns: July 1-Sept. 30, 2017 (Source: Morningstar) 
Copyright New York Times Company Oct 15, 2017 
Subject 	Mutual funds; 
Fossil fuels; 
Emissions; 

Portfolio management; 
Natural gas reserves 


Company / organization 	Name: Exxon Mobil Corp 

NAICS: 211111, 447110 


Title 	A Low-Carbon Diet for Investments: [SpecialSections] 
Author 	Gray, Tim 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	BU.11 
Publication year 	2017 
Publication date 	Oct 15, 2017 
Section 	BU 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	General Interest Periodicals--United States 
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1950789364  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1950789364?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Oct 15, 2017  
Last updated  2017-11-25  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 226 of 236 


Question Roiling Australia: Does Planet Need More Coal?: [Foreign Desk] 
Williams, Jacqueline.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]15 Oct 2017: A.6. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Question+Roiling+Australia%3A+Does+Planet+Need+More+Coal%3F%3A+%5B 10-15&volume=&issue=&spage=A.6&au=Williams%2C+Jacqueline&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
ABBOT POINT, Australia -- In a desolate corner of northeastern Australia, about 100 miles from the nearest town, a grassy stretch of prime grazing land sits above a vein of coal so rich and deep that it could be mined for decades. 
The Australian government is considering a proposal to build one of the world's largest coal mines in this remote locale, known as the Galilee Basin, where acacia and eucalyptus trees grow wild between scattered creeks. 
An Indian conglomerate, the Adani Group, has asked for a taxpayer-financed loan of as much as $800 million to make the enormous project viable, promising to create thousands of jobs in return. 
But the plan has met intense opposition in Australia and abroad, focusing attention on a question with global resonance: Given the threat of climate change and the slowing global demand for coal, does the world really need another giant mine, especially at the public's expense? 
Adani has proposed building six open-cut pits and five underground complexes capable of producing as much as 66 million tons of coal a year. New infrastructure to support the mine -- a rail line to the coast and an expanded port -- would also make it economically feasible to extract coal from at least eight additional sites in the Galilee Basin. 
That could more than double coal output in Australia, which already produces more coal than any other nation except China, the United States and India. About 88 percent of the 487 tons of coal mined in Australia is exported. 
For many environmentalists, what happens in this mining case is a test of the world's commitment to fighting climate change. Its failure would register as an unmistakable sign of an international shift away from the fossil fuels behind climate change. But if Australia agrees to subsidize the mine -- even though several commercial banks have shunned it -- the project would demonstrate the lasting allure and influence of the coal industry. 
"How it can be constructed -- at a time when the whole world is committed to move away from fossil fuels -- is madness that most people just can't understand," said Geoffrey Cousins, president of the Australian Conservation Foundation. 
The project, known as the Carmichael mine, has provoked strong resistance in part because of its proximity to the Great Barrier Reef, a natural wonder that is already dying because of overheated seawater blamed on climate change. Adani plans to deliver most of the coal to India on shipping routes that critics say would further damage the ecosystem of the world's greatest system of reefs. 
The debate over the mine has dominated headlines in Australia for months and fueled one of the most fervent environmental campaigns in the nation's history. Protests have grown in size and frequency, and polls show Australians who oppose the mine outnumber those who support it by more than two-to-one. 
A group of Indigenous Australians is also challenging Adani's claim to the land. 
But Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull supports the project, and it just needs financing to proceed. A government agency established to support private-sector infrastructure investment is reviewing Adani's loan request, and the company has said it is also lining up money overseas. 
"This is a tipping point," said Maree Dibella, a coordinator of the North Queensland Conservation Council, referring to the mine's role in the global campaign against coal. 
Around the Galilee Basin, where a population of less than 20,000 is scattered across an area the size of Britain, opinion is divided. 
Bruce Currie, a cattle farmer who lives near the site and has traveled to India to investigate Adani's record, said he is worried the mine will drain too much groundwater, calling it "yet another burden our small business has to bear." 
Several hours drive north in Collinsville, one of the area's oldest mining communities, Roderick Macdonald, 57, a retired miner, said Adani had come to the town promising to build mining camps and employ local people. 
"From what I can hear and see, Mr. Adani's going to do nothing for this town," Mr. Macdonald said, referring to Gautam Adani, the billionaire founder and chairman of the company. 
But others in the region are more hopeful. Mining accounts for as much as 7 percent of the Australian economy, and the northeastern state of Queensland, where the Galilee Basin lies, has suffered a downturn in recent years because of slowing demand for natural resources, especially from China. 
"I need jobs for Queenslanders," said the state's premier, Annastacia Palaszczuk, of the Adani proposal. 
Towns along the coast have been vying for potential contracts with the mine for maintenance work, construction and other services. "People are really rooting for this because of the economy," said Stephen Smyth, a local union leader, who started working in underground mines at 17. 
The Carmichael mine, he added, is "offering that thing of hope, hope for a better life, secure employment and better wages so people can live a reasonable life." 
Adani has said the project will create as many as 10,000 jobs in the region. But a consultant hired by Adani said the employment claim was overstated in court testimony given in a case where a conservation group was looking to block the mine. Critics have also noted that other mines in Australia may need to scale back production if Carmichael opens, meaning job losses elsewhere. 
A host of Australian celebrities -- including the rock band Midnight Oil -- and international groups have urged Mr. Turnbull to kill the project, arguing that such a large mine would violate Australia's commitment in the Paris climate accord to work to prevent temperatures from rising more than 2 degrees Celsius above preindustrial levels. 
In April, Mr. Turnbull met with Mr. Adani and later told reporters that the mine "will create tens of thousands of jobs," adding, "Plainly, there is a huge economic benefit from a big project of this kind, assuming it's built and it proceeds." 
If Adani and other mines in the Galilee Basin go ahead and reach maximum production, coal from the region would release as much as 700 million tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere every year, or nearly as much as Germany generates in emissions, according to a study by Greenpeace. 
Australia has pledged to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions to 26 percent to 28 percent below 2005 levels by 2030, but the coal it sells to India and other countries would not be counted in its total. 
It is unclear if India even needs the extra coal. After years of big increases in coal consumption, the growth rate slowed last year as the nation has improved energy efficiency and shifted to solar, wind and hydropower. India's coal-fired power plants are running below 60 percent of capacity, a record low, experts say. 
That has raised questions about the economics of the Carmichael mine. Australia's four largest banks have publicly ruled out financing it, and analysts have argued that the mine would face stiff competition from local sources of coal in India and elsewhere. 
Globally, coal consumption actually decreased by 1.7 percent in 2016, according to a BP report on energy trends, leading the company to declare that "the fortunes of coal appear to have taken a decisive break from the past." 
Critics worry Adani could default on the government's loan or flood the market, lowering prices worldwide and allowing coal to make a comeback as an energy source. 
The Adani Group's business record has also drawn scrutiny. The conglomerate, whose interests span natural resources, logistics, energy and agriculture, has faced allegations in India of environmental degradation, money laundering and bribery, but it has denied any illegal activity. 
Adani leased about 460 square miles of land in the Galilee Basin nearly a decade ago. It can take two to three days to get to the site from the coast, with the last leg of the trip on unpaved roads. Surveying, soil testing and design work has begun, including on an airstrip, mining camp, access roads and the rail link, said Ron Watson, a spokesman for Adani Australia. 
Coal from the mine would be transported by rail about 240 miles through grazing land to Abbot Point, the nation's most northern deep water coal port, which is already used to ship coal to China, Japan and South Korea. Adani has signed a 99-year lease of the port and plans an expansion that would allow it to double the amount of coal going through. 
From the air, the piles of coal and equipment at Abbot Point are a striking contrast with the turquoise waters of the Coral Sea. The closest coral of the Great Barrier Reef is just 12 miles away. 
A 30-minute drive southeast from Abbot Point is the seaside town of Bowen, where parts of the Nicole Kidman epic "Australia" was filmed a decade ago during better times. Now, the streets are dotted with "For Sale" signs beyond the main drag. 
"We had miners living in the high parts of town," or the most expensive neighborhoods, said Mike Brunker, who represents Bowen in the Whitsunday regional council and is a supporter of the mine for the jobs it is projected to bring. "That was the boom time. They had to leave, they had to go to other mines, or they've just gone broke." 
Further up the coast is Townsville, home to Adani's headquarters in Australia, where protesters sometimes congregate and residents exemplify the conflicts felt by many in the region. 
"You don't know what's good for us," one man snapped at an environmental activist conducting a survey recently. 
Not too long after, another resident told the activist, "I oppose the mine even though I applied for a job." 

Photograph 
Abbot Point, Above, Australia's Most Northern Deep Water Coal Port, Which the Adani Group Plans to Expand As Part of a Huge Mining Project That Is to Include More Local Employment at the Collinsville Mine, Left, in Queensland. Roderick Macdonald, Below, a Retired Miner, Doubts the Company's Promises. (Photographs by David Maurice Smith for the New York Times) 
Copyright New York Times Company Oct 15, 2017 
Subject 	Mines; 

Coal mining; 

Fossil fuels; 
Ports; 

Employment; 

Climate change; 
Natural resources; 

Native peoples; 
Economic development 


Location 	Great Barrier Reef; China; India; Australia Company / organization Name: Adani Group NAICS: 212112, 212210 
Title  Question Roiling Australia: Does Planet Need More Coal?: [Foreign Desk]  
Author  Williams, Jacqueline  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.6  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Oct 15, 2017  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1950785289  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1950785289?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Oct 15, 2017  
Last updated  2017-11-24  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 227 of 236 


Trump's Sellout of American Heritage: [Op-Ed] 
Egan, Timothy.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]14 Oct 2017: A.18. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Trump%27s+Sellout+of+American+Heritage%3A+%5BOp­Ed%5D&title=New+York+Times&issn=03624331&date=2017-10­14&volume=&issue=&spage=A.18&au=Egan%2C+Timothy&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
The last runs of heavenly wild salmon are trickling in this month, the buttery coho with flesh the color of fall foliage. After that, we'll have to settle for mostly farmed and frozen fish until next spring -- no substitute for the real deal. 
We can count on this seasonal miracle, healthy fish returning to their birthplaces and then on to the dinner table, so long as the fragile balance of nature remains intact. But with a president who is going after clean air, clean water and the world's most valuable wild salmon fishery, the fate of creation and all the myriad wonders within it is at stake. 
I use "creation" as an appeal to creationists to look at what your president is doing to Eden, or what's left of it. I also want to appeal to economic nationalists. For the U.S.A. has the greatest home for sockeye salmon on the planet in Alaska's Bristol Bay. The Trump administration is putting it at risk in order to aid a foreign mining conglomerate. 
This American carnage is led by a man whose job is to protect the natural world within our borders, the E.P.A. administrator, Scott Pruitt. As you may have heard, he has sealed himself off from the public with a $25,000 phone security system and an 18-member security detail. It took a court order to pry loose some of the details of his meetings. No surprise, he holds daily lap-dog sessions with the companies he is supposed to regulate. 
Pruitt is the swamp, the only wetland the Trump administration wants to protect. He serves the oil, chemical and mining interests that propped him up when he was attorney general of Oklahoma. He now runs the oil, chemical and mining protection agency out of Washington, with our money. You would never guess that this toady in a suit works for us. 
Look around. The catastrophic wildfires that are sweeping through iconic landscapes in Northern California and carpet-bombing entire neighborhoods are a glimpse into an early future in the West. Hurricanes, rolling in one after the other, are swamping cities. Every month brings a new high temperature record. 
Until this year, the American response was in tune with the rest of the world -- to try to do something to fix this overheated globe of ours. 
In announcing this week that President Trump intends to spite all the other nations and gut President Barack Obama's signature effort to curb greenhouse gas emissions, Pruitt framed the move as the end of the "war on coal." Now comes the war on the planet and public health. 
Amid the hourly calamities of a White House that is forced to treat its chief occupant like a toddler, it's easy to forget that Trump is doing real damage to things that all of us share. 
So, that's politics, right? To the victor go the spoils. He's simply rolling back onerous regulations, as promised, and sticking it to the global elites on climate change. Well, no. 
Your party affiliation will not protect you from the chemicals sprayed on strawberries -- shown to cause brain damage to children -- which Trump will allow to remain in the food chain. Living in a red state will not keep warming oceans from rising ever higher when the latest 500-year storm hits your region. Being a Trump supporter does not protect your favorite stream from the toxic discharge of a power plant into a public waterway. 
All of the above are potential consequences of more than 50 environmental rules that Trump has tried to kill since he took office. 
National monuments -- not the Confederate kind that Trump wants to preserve, but special places protected in somewhat the same way as national parks -- are also in his sights. These are unique landscapes set aside for their cultural, historical or scenic splendor. Trump could shrink 10 of them -- another sellout of American heritage. 
In Alaska, he is going against the will of the people to target Bristol Bay. Half the world's wild sockeye come from this magical place, a bounty that supports 14,000 jobs. Alaskans are a cantankerous bunch who can't agree on much of anything. Yet they voted by an overwhelming margin in 2014 to protect Bristol Bay from a gold and copper mine that could generate 10 billion tons of toxic waste. 
And unlike big food producers in the heartland, the Bristol Bay salmon industry is not propped up by subsidies, chemicals or compromised politicians. The fish need only clean water and healthy oceans. That's why the E.P.A. had earlier concluded that the proposed Pebble mine could have a "catastrophic" impact on the bay. 
Trump's men are rolling over for the gold mine. Just hours after Pruitt met with the mine's corporate leadership, Trump reversed E.P.A. protection, as CNN reported this week. If you're surprised that wild salmon would be sacrificed for precious metal, remember that one of Trump's few passions is for gold-plated bathroom fixtures. 
I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@nytegan). 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 
Copyright New York Times Company Oct 14, 2017 
Subject  Presidents;  
Gold;  
Mining;  
Health care;  
Industrial plant emissions;  
Salmon;  
American history;  
Environmental policy;  
Environmental regulations  
Location  United States--US  
People  Obama, Barack; Trump, Donald J  
Title  Trump's Sellout of American Heritage: [Op-Ed]  
Author  Egan, Timothy  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.18  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Oct 14, 2017  
column  Contributing Op-Ed Writer  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1950584439  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1950584439?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Oct 14, 2017  
Last updated  2017-11-24  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 228 of 236 


Carbon Dioxide Is Harmless, Says Trump Pick for Environmental Adviser: [National Desk] 
Friedman, Lisa.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]14 Oct 2017: A.9. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Carbon+Dioxide+Is+Harmless%2C+Says+Trump+Pick+for+Environmental+Adv 10-14&volume=&issue=&spage=A.9&au=Friedman%2C+Lisa&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
President Trump has nominated a former top Texas environmental regulator, who has argued that carbon dioxide is a harmless gas that should not be regulated, to be the White House senior adviser on environmental policy. 
The former regulator, Kathleen Hartnett White, will lead the Council on Environmental Quality if confirmed by the Senate. Currently she serves as a senior fellow at the Texas Public Policy Foundation, a free-market think tank. She previously served as the chairwoman of the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality under Rick Perry, who was governor at the time and is now the Energy Secretary. 
"Kathleen is clearly highly qualified, adept and has a breadth of experience" said James L. Connaughton, who led the agency under George W. Bush. 
The appointment is the latest in a series of disputed environmental nominations. This week, Mr. Trump nominated Barry Lee Myers, the chief executive of AccuWeather, a for-profit weather forecasting company, to lead the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Last week, the president nominated Andrew Wheeler, a coal lobbyist, to be deputy administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. 
Environmentalists say Mr. Trump is stacking agencies with those who either reject the scientific consensus that human-made emissions cause climate change or lack the scientific qualifications for their jobs. 
"Now you have a full house for the fossil fuel industry," said Christy Goldfuss, who served as managing director of the White House environmental council under former President Obama. She called Mrs. White's appointment particularly troubling, citing a piece she wrote entitled, "Fossil Fuels: The Moral Case." In it, Mrs. White argued that labeling carbon dioxide emissions as a pollutant is "absurd" and asserted that it should be considered the "gas of life." 
Mrs. White also has called renewable energy "unreliable and parasitic," described global warming as "a creed, a faith, a dogma that has little to do with science," and asserted that science does not dictate policy in democracies. 
Conservatives, including those who accept the established science of climate change, said they believe Mrs. White is a good choice for the job. 
"I don't think that she's right on climate science," said Eli Lehrer, president of the R Street Institute, a conservative think tank that has argued in favor of a carbon tax. But Mr. Lehrer also said he hoped that Mrs. White will support the Trump administration's moves to reverse the Obama administration's effort to regulate power plant emissions under the Clean Power Plan. 
He said he is also optimistic that Mrs. White will help roll back other rules, including one that governs how the Environmental Protection Agency protects waterways. 
"Her instincts on working to remove burdensome regulation, I expect, are largely right," Mr. Lehrer said. 
Democrats, meanwhile, have begun to question the choice of Mr. Myers to lead NOAA. The administration, which is the country's chief agency on atmospheric science, falls under the Department of Commerce and is responsible for weather forecasting, climate modeling and ocean services. 
Senator Brian Schatz, Democrat of Hawaii, said in a statement that as head of a for-profit weather forecasting service, Mr. Myers essentially viewed NOAA as a direct competitor, since the agency provides forecasts for free. He said Mr. Myers would likely face conflicts of interest as administrator and called the nomination a "questionable choice." 
Follow @NYTClimate on Twitter 

Photograph 
Kathleen Hartnett White Copyright New York Times Company Oct 14, 2017 
Subject 	Nominations; Science; Emissions; Carbon dioxide; Presidents; 
Environmental protection; Industrial plant emissions; Climate change; Environmental quality; Environmental regulations; Political appointments  
Location  United States--US  
People  Trump, Donald J; Hartnett White, Kathleen  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 924110;  
Name: NAICS:  Council on Environmental Quality 926130;  
Name: NAICS:  Texas Public Policy Foundation 813211;  
Name: NAICS:  National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration--NOAA 924120  
Title  Carbon Dioxide Is Harmless, Says Trump Pick for Environmental Adviser: [National Desk]  
Author  Friedman, Lisa  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.9  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Oct 14, 2017  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1950584236  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1950584236?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Oct 14, 2017  
Last updated  2017-11-24  
Database  Global Newsstream  


document 229 of 236 


Nailing the Coffin on Climate Relief: [Editorial] 
New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]11 Oct 2017: A.22. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Nailing+the+Coffin+on+Climate+Relief%3A+%5BEditorial%5D&title=New+Yo 10-11&volume=&issue=&spage=A.22&au=&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
The Trump administration formally proposed on Tuesday to roll back yet another of President Barack Obama's efforts to position the United States as a global leader in the fight against climate change. The move, though widely anticipated, was deeply disheartening. In March Mr. Trump ordered Scott Pruitt, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, to repeal the Clean Power Plan, which was aimed at reducing carbon dioxide emissions from coal-fired power plants. Mr. Pruitt, a climate denier closely tied to the fossil fuel industry, was only too happy to oblige -- boasting to an audience of Kentucky coal miners on Monday that the plan was dead and that "the war on coal is over." 
All this is infuriating on several levels. 
It repeated the same false narrative that congressional Republicans have been peddling for years and that Mr. Trump's minions are peddling now -- that environmental regulations are job killers, that restraining greenhouse gas emissions will damage the economy, that the way forward lies in digging more coal and punching more holes in the ground in the search for oil. 
It reaffirmed the administration's blind loyalty to dirtier energy sources, ignoring the pleas of corporate leaders who know that economic momentum and new investment lie with cleaner sources of energy, and fear that without innovation their costs will rise and their competitive edge over foreign countries will be lost. 
It repudiated the rock-solid scientific consensus that without swift action the consequences of climate change -- widespread species extinction, more devastating droughts, more Harveys and Irmas and wildfires like those now raging in Northern California -- will become more likely. 
It offered, on a human level, more empty promises to the frightened miners who keep showing up to hear Mr. Pruitt say that coal is coming back, when any comeback is unlikely not because of regulation but because of powerful market forces favoring natural gas and renewables. 
And it gave us another reminder that Mr. Trump is hellbent on abdicating the leadership on climate change Mr. Obama worked so hard to achieve -- first with a suite of regulatory measures and then by making an emissions-reduction pledge at the 2015 Paris climate summit meeting strong enough to induce 194 other nations to sign on to what had all the makings of a historic global agreement. 
Under that agreement, nations submitted voluntary pledges to curb their emissions in the near term and to ratchet up their efforts in the future; the idea was to limit the rise in global warming to well below two degrees Celsius (or 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) above preindustrial levels. To that end, Mr. Obama promised that the United States, which accounts for one-fifth of the world's emissions, would lower its emissions by 26 to 28 percent below 2005 levels by 2025. The administration later published a report sketching out various technological pathways to cutting emissions 80 percent or more by 2050. 
Then along came Mr. Trump, who in March ordered the destruction or delay of nearly every building block that supported Mr. Obama's pledge -- rules aimed at increasing fuel efficiency of cars and trucks; rules aimed at limiting emissions of methane, a powerful greenhouse gas, from oil and gas wells; rules aimed at increasing the energy efficiency of appliances; and most important of all, the Clean Power Plan. Not long afterward, Mr. Trump commanded his secretary of the interior, Ryan Zinke, to reverse Mr. Obama's efforts to limit oil and gas exploration in Arctic waters and on sensitive federal lands, a task to which Mr. Zinke has fallen with great enthusiasm and which, if successful, will further increase the carbon emissions the world is trying to limit. 
Given all these orders, Mr. Trump's decision in June to withdraw from the Paris agreement, though deeply demoralizing to the entire world, seemed in practical terms almost superfluous. 
Some experts say that all is not lost, that it is still possible for the United States to hit its Paris targets. Aggressive state and local policies as well as market forces and technological improvements have already reduced emissions about 12 percent below 2005 levels. These include a huge switch to gas from coal, which once supplied more than half the country's electricity and now supplies only a third; the steadily dropping cost of wind and solar energy; and more efficient vehicles, buildings and appliances. Further progress along these lines, without any federal help, could yield a total emissions reduction of 15 to 19 percent. One particularly bright note is that many states, including California and New York, are already moving ahead of the targets set by the Clean Power Plan. 
Those same experts, however, also concede that federal help is crucial, both in limiting emissions from existing sources and in promoting alternative fuels and new technologies. This administration shows no interest in either. Mr. Pruitt, in fact, used the occasion of his triumphant dismissal of the Clean Power Plan to say he would love to get rid of the federal subsidies that have been and remain vital to the development of wind and solar power, while saying nary a word about the lavish subsidies for the oil industry. 
Like some of Mr. Trump's other rollbacks, the power plant decision will be fought in court by some states and by environmental groups. The E.P.A. is required by law to regulate carbon dioxide emissions in some fashion, but so far Mr. Pruitt has not proposed a substitute plan. The betting is that if he does, it won't amount to much, surely not the closing of any coal-fired plants. Meanwhile, Mr. Obama's measures lie in tatters, along with Mr. Trump's claims to leadership. 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 
Credit: THE EDITORIAL BOARD 

Illustration 
Drawing (Drawing by Grace Han) 
Copyright New York Times Company Oct 11, 2017 

Subject  Greenhouse gases; Emissions; Power; Carbon; Subsidies; Coal-fired power plants; Industrial plant emissions; Climate change; Natural gas; Editorials; Environmental policy; Energy policy  
Location  United States--US; Northern California; California; Kentucky  
People  Trump, Donald J; Pruitt, Scott  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 924110  
Title  Nailing the Coffin on Climate Relief: [Editorial]  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.22  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Oct 11, 2017  
column  Editorial  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  1949472639  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1949472639?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Oct 11, 2017  
Last updated  2017-11-24  

Database Global Newsstream 
document 230 of 236 


How State Carbon Emissions May Change: [National Desk] 
Plumer, Brad.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]11 Oct 2017: A.11. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=How+State+Carbon+Emissions+May+Change%3A+%5BNational+Desk%5D&titl 10-11&volume=&issue=&spage=A.11&au=Plumer%2C+Brad&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
It all depends on where you live. For California, repeal won't make much difference. For West Virginia, it could matter a lot. 
When the Obama administration unveiled the Clean Power Plan in 2015, each state was given individual goals to slash power sector emissions. The aim was to shift utilities 
away from coal in favor of cleaner sources like natural gas, wind, solar and nuclear to help address global warming. 
Even though the rule has never taken effect -- it was temporarily blocked by the Supreme Court in 2016 and is now slated for repeal by the White House -- dozens of states 

were making that shift anyway, driven by economic considerations and local clean-energy policies. 

But the Obama-era regulation would have pushed a smaller handful of other states, like North Dakota and Indiana, to cut emissions more deeply than market forces alone are 
doing. Without the Clean Power Plan, those states may not take more forceful action on climate change. 
A new analysis from the research firm Rhodium Group breaks down which states appear to be still on track to meet their Clean Power Plan targets even after repeal and which 

are not. Nationwide, the group projected that emissions from electricity would fall 27 to 35 percent below 2005 levels by 2030 even without the plan -- but could have declined 
even further if the rule had gone into effect. 
25 states are likely to beat their targets. 

The repeal isn't expected to change much in the short term for these 25 states. 
Many Democratic-controlled states have pledged to implement the Paris climate agreement, even as President Trump vows to abandon it, and are drafting their own policies to 
curtail pollution from power plants. Oregon and New York plan to retire their last coal units by 2020. California's legislature has authorized a sweeping climate program to 
decarbonize not just electricity, but transportation and buildings as well. 

A number of Republican-controlled states that filed lawsuits to block the Clean Power Plan are also likely to meet their targets anyway. In Oklahoma, a glut of cheap natural gas 

from hydraulic fracturing has displaced coal power, and wind turbines now provide a quarter of the state's electricity. 
Brian Alford, a spokesman for OG&E, a utility in Oklahoma, suggested the trends show that "the industry can achieve meaningful CO2 reductions" without a complex federal 
rule. But some environmentalists argue that this just shows the original plan should have been even more ambitious. 

10 states may be close to hitting their targets but could miss. 

The Rhodium Group analysis identified another 10 states that are reducing emissions in their power sector but might fall short of the Clean Power Plan's original goals, 
depending on how technology and market forces evolve. 
If, for instance, natural gas prices rise sharply in the future, existing coal plants in some states could suddenly become more competitive and run more often. (A recent proposal 

by the Energy Department to subsidize existing coal plants could also make a difference here.) And if the current growth in renewable energy slows unexpectedly, states like North Carolina and Maryland could end up with emissions higher than the Clean Power Plan would have required. 
But, conversely, if natural gas remains cheap and the cost of wind and solar continues to fall sharply, these 10 states should hit their targets. 
Ted J. Thomas, the chairman of the Arkansas Public Service commission, said that he expected Arkansas to beat the Clean Power Plan goals years ahead of the original 2030 
deadline. But, he added, if the plan had remained in place and natural gas prices had risen, the state might have had to consider more "wrenching" changes to its power sector. 

12 states may miss their targets. 
With the Clean Power Plan repealed, 12 states may not meet the emissions goals laid out by the Obama administration. Some, like West Virginia, a coal-heavy state, would miss 

the targets by a large margin. Others, like Texas, are projected to just barely fall short. Those 12 states produced 40 percent of the country's carbon emissions from power plants in 2014. Analysts say that the Clean Power Plan would have had the biggest effect in these states, spurring utilities and state regulators to include climate policy in their decisions and 
potentially encouraging solar or wind to expand into regions where they are currently less prevalent. 
"The C.P.P. would have forced every state to develop a power sector greenhouse-gas reduction plan, which likely would have resulted in a bunch of states opening up markets to solar in new ways -- faster fossil plant retirements, renewable standards, etc.," said Shayle Kann, head of GTM Research. 
Not everyone is convinced that all of these states will miss the emissions targets. Bruce Nilles, senior director of the Beyond Coal campaign at the Sierra Club, said that Texas was currently considering the closure of another large coal plant, with more retirements possibly on the way. His group is trying to persuade utilities in the state that future climate regulations are inevitable, so they should accelerate investments in cleaner energy as a hedge. 
"We think of this Rhodium Group analysis as a floor on what's possible, not a ceiling," Mr. Nilles said. The electricity sector is evolving so quickly, he added, that "a lot of states may end up surprising us." 
Follow @NYTClimate on Twitter 
Map 
After the Clean Power Plan: A New Analysis Shows Which States Appear On Track to Meet the Emissions Targets in the Clean Power Plan Even After It Is Repealed -- And Which Could Miss Their Obama-Era Goals. (Source: Rhodium Group) 
Copyright New York Times Company Oct 11, 2017 
Subject 	Electricity; 
Emissions; 

Coal-fired power plants; 
Natural gas prices; 
Environmental policy; 
Natural gas utilities; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Climate change; 
Environmental regulations; 

Reforms; 
Energy policy; 
State laws 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Trump, Donald J; Obama, Barack 
Title 	How State Carbon Emissions May Change: [National Desk] 
Author 	Plumer, Brad 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.11 
Publication year 	2017 
Publication date 	Oct 11, 2017 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	General Interest Periodicals--United States 
ISSN 	03624331 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	News 
ProQuest document ID 	1949458470 
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1949458470?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Oct 11, 2017  
Last updated  2017-11-24  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 231 of 236 


A New Federal Carbon Rule? Not So Fast: [National Desk] 
Friedman, Lisa.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]11 Oct 2017: A.11. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=A+New+Federal+Carbon+Rule%3F+Not+So+Fast%3A+%5BNational+Desk%5D 10-11&volume=&issue=&spage=A.11&au=Friedman%2C+Lisa&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- When Scott Pruitt, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, signed a blueprint Tuesday to eliminate a major Obama-era climate change regulation, the text said the agency would at some point consider a new rule to ratchet down greenhouse gas emissions. 
But those adept at reading between the lines of dense federal documents say the subtext reads more like: "Don't hold your breath." 
Industry leaders and environmental activists predict that when the Trump administration formalizes its plan to repeal the Clean Power Plan, nothing will take its place for possibly years to come. The E.P.A. said it would seek public comment on how to fashion a more modest measure to address pollution from power plants, although the agency has not said when it would do so. 
"I suspect this will drag out for years, many years," said Robert Murray, chief executive of Murray Energy Corp. and a vocal opponent of carbon regulations. "They need to take the time to study this and see if they come up with anything to substitute. I hope they come up with nothing." 
Mr. Pruitt previewed his plan on Monday at a coal equipment supply company in Hazard, Ky., where he declared, "The war on coal is over." There and in the repeal proposal, Mr. Pruitt accused the Obama administration of favoring renewable energy over coal and violating the Clean Air Act when it established state-by-state targets for carbon emission reductions. 
"The last administration just simply made it up," Mr. Pruitt said. "When you think about the Clean Power Plan, it was not about regulating to make things regular. It was about regulating to pick winners and losers." He said the Obama administration overstepped its authority in order to favor renewable energy over fossil fuels. 
"We are committed to righting the wrongs of the Obama administration by cleaning the regulatory slate," Mr. Pruitt added in a statement Tuesday. "Any replacement rule will be done carefully, properly, and with humility, by listening to all those affected by the rule." 
Under the proposed repeal, the bureaucratic process of unraveling the Clean Power Plan could take months, and that is before any court challenges. Separately, the E.P.A. said it would ask the public for ideas about how to write a different, more tapered regulation. It gave no indication, however, of when it would do so or even whether it actually intended to create such a new rule. Moreover, soliciting public comment -- in federal jargon, an "advance notice of proposed rule making" -- is usually used by an agency to test ideas far in advance of even putting forward a proposed new regulation. 
"I think they're just dragging their feet," said Vicki Arroyo, executive director of the Georgetown Climate Center at Georgetown Law School. 
"They've had all this time to figure out what it is they would do if they were in charge, and they've been in charge since January, and they've known since November. So it's literally been a year and they really don't have anything to come up with other than kicking the can down the road?" she said. "They're basically running out the clock." 
Business leaders from the Chamber of Commerce and leading utility companies have urged the E.P.A. in recent months to design a replacement for the Clean Power Plan. The groups, all opponents of the Obama-era plan, have argued that some type of regulation must exist to protect the E.P.A. from lawsuits. Even if the Trump administration succeeds in killing the Clean Power Plan, a 2009 agency determination known as the endangerment finding still compels the agency to regulate carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases. 
"When they finalize the repeal, there will certainly be a lawsuit. And separate and apart from that, if they don't move forward with a replacement rule they will also have a lawsuit," said Jeff Holmstead, a lawyer with Bracewell LLP, a firm representing energy companies that sued to overturn the Clean Power Plan. 
Mr. Holmstead said challenging the E.P.A. will not be easy because there is no specific deadline for the agency to move forward with a replacement. But, he added, "I think there will be pressure from the business community for the E.P.A. to do something so there is a regulation in place." 
"We are concerned legally that not having a replacement regulation in place opens them up to liability," said Ross Eisenberg, vice president of energy policy at the National Association of Manufacturers, which applauded Tuesday's repeal. Mr. Eisenberg said he was not concerned that the agency appears to want some time to consider a replacement. But, he said, companies are eager to see that effort move forward. 
Industry isn't all on the same page. Mr. Murray said he didn't believe a replacement was necessary. "Right now, there's no urgency to do anything in my opinion," he said. 
Supporters and opponents alike point out that the E.P.A. may not have enough senior officials in place to design a new rule. President Trump only last week nominated a deputy administrator to the agency, and other key appointees are awaiting senate confirmation. Another factor is Mr. Pruitt himself, a vocal denier of the scientific consensus that human-caused greenhouse gas emissions are the main cause of climate change. Policy analysts said they did not believe Mr. Pruitt wanted his name attached to any greenhouse gas regulation, even a weak one. 
"It's very clear that this administration has no interest in seriously taking on climate change, be it in the power sector or other sources of emissions," said David Konisky, an associate professor in the School of Public and Environmental Affairs at Indiana University. "Delaying is the policy." 
But where some see cynical strategy, Mr. Pruitt's supporters see considered reasoning. David T. Stevenson, policy director at the Center for Energy Competitiveness at the Caesar Rodney Institute in Delaware and a member of Mr. Trump's E.P.A. transition team, said smart policy takes time. Designing and moving forward a replacement for the Clean Power Plan could take as long as two years, he said. 
"If you do it right that's how long it takes," he said. "These kinds of rules were put in place for a reason, so you couldn't just willy-nilly regulate the heck out of things." 
Follow @NYTClimate on Twitter 

Photograph 
A Coal-Fired Power Station in Newburg, Md. Trump Officials Have Accused the Obama Administration of Favoring Renewable Energy Over Coal. (Photograph by Mark Wilson/Getty Images); Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. Chief, Is Reluctant to Be Attached to Any Greenhouse Gas Regulation. 
Copyright New York Times Company Oct 11, 2017 
Subject 	Regulatory agencies; 

Coal-fired power plants; 
Greenhouse gases; 
Emissions; 

Carbon; 
Energy industry; 

Industrial plant emissions; 

Climate change; 
Litigation; 

Environmental regulations 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Trump, Donald J; Pruitt, Scott; Obama, Barack 
Company / organization 	Name: Murray Energy Corp 

NAICS: 212112; 

Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA NAICS: 924110 
Title 	A New Federal Carbon Rule? Not So Fast: [National Desk] 
Author 	Friedman, Lisa 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.11 
Publication year 	2017 
Publication date 	Oct 11, 2017 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	General Interest Periodicals--United States 
ISSN 	03624331 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1949457044  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1949457044?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Oct 11, 2017  
Last updated  2017-11-25  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 232 of 236 


E.P.A. Announces Bid to Roll Back Emissions Policy: [National Desk] 
Friedman, Lisa; Plumer, Brad.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]10 Oct 2017: A.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=E.P.A.+Announces+Bid+to+Roll+Back+Emissions+Policy%3A+%5BNational+Des 10-10&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Friedman%2C+Lisa%3BPlumer%2C+Brad&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- The Trump administration announced on Monday that it would take formal steps to repeal President Barack Obama's signature policy to curb greenhouse gas emissions from power plants, setting up a bitter fight over the future of America's efforts to tackle global warming. 
At an event in eastern Kentucky, Scott Pruitt, the head of the Environmental Protection Agency, said that his predecessors had departed from regulatory norms in crafting the Clean Power Plan, which was finalized in 2015 and would have pushed states to move away from coal in favor of sources of electricity that produce fewer carbon emissions. 
"The war on coal is over," Mr. Pruitt said. "Tomorrow in Washington, D.C., I will be signing a proposed rule to roll back the Clean Power Plan. No better place to make that announcement than Hazard, Ky." 
The repeal proposal, which will be filed in the Federal Register on Tuesday, fulfills a promise President Trump made to eradicate his predecessor's environmental legacy. Eliminating the Clean Power Plan makes it less likely that the United States can fulfill its promise as part of the Paris climate agreement to ratchet down emissions that are warming the planet and contributing to heat waves and sea-level rise. Mr. Trump has vowed to abandon that international accord. 
It also is a personal triumph for Mr. Pruitt, who as Oklahoma attorney general helped lead more than two dozen states in challenging the rule in the courts. In announcing the repeal, Mr. Pruitt made many of the same arguments that he had made for years to Congress and in lawsuits: that the Obama administration exceeded its legal authority in an effort to limit greenhouse gas emissions from power plants. (Last year, the Supreme Court blocked the rule from taking effect while courts assessed those lawsuits.) A leaked draft of the repeal proposal asserts that the country would save $33 billion by not complying with the regulation and rejects the health benefits the Obama administration had calculated from the original rule. 
Coal- and natural-gas-fired power plants are responsible for about one-third of America's carbon dioxide emissions. When the Clean Power Plan was unveiled in 2015, it was expected to cut power sector emissions 32 percent by 2030, relative to 2005. While many states are already shifting away from coal power for economic reasons, experts say scrapping the rule could slow that transition. 
Environmental groups and several states plan to challenge the repeal proposal in federal courts, arguing against Mr. Pruitt's move on both scientific and economic grounds. 
Industry groups cheered the announcement, but have also indicated that they would prefer that Mr. Pruitt replace the Clean Power Plan with a new, more modest regulation on power plants in order to blunt any court challenges. The E.P.A. is still required to regulate greenhouse-gas emissions because of a 2009 legal opinion known as the endangerment finding. 
"We have always believed that there is a better way to approach greenhouse gas emissions reductions," Karen A. Harbert, the president of the Chamber of Commerce's Global Energy Institute, said in a statement. "We welcome the opportunity for business to be at the table with the E.P.A. and other stakeholders to develop an approach that lowers emissions, preserves America's energy advantage and respects the bounds of the Clean Air Act." 
How would targets be changed? 
In order to regulate pollution from existing power plants, the E.P.A. has to set goals for each state based on what is technically feasible and cost-effective. Under the Clean Power Plan, the Obama administration set targets by assuming utilities could improve the efficiency of their coal plants, shift from coal to cleaner natural gas and add more renewable energy to their grids. 
But Mr. Obama's approach was controversial, because the E.P.A. assumed utilities could reduce emissions at individual plants by taking actions outside of those plants -- say, by replacing coal plants with wind farms elsewhere. Industry groups and more than two dozen states challenged this move in court, arguing that the E.P.A. can look only at cleanup measures that can be undertaken at the plants themselves. 
Mr. Pruitt is proposing to repeal the Clean Power Plan on this basis. He also argued that the Obama administration overstated the benefits of its rule by factoring in the gains from curbing global warming in other countries as well as from reducing harmful air pollutants other than carbon dioxide. 
If Mr. Pruitt does end up pursuing a replacement rule, it would almost certainly be confined to inside-the-fence-line measures, like upgrading coal-plant boilers. Previous E.P.A. analyses found that such upgrades would lead to a roughly 4 percent increase in efficiency at coal plants. 
What is the impact on emissions? 
While the repeal of the Clean Power Plan offers a reprieve for America's coal industry, it is unlikely to halt the decline of coal altogether. Even in the absence of the rule, many utilities across the country have opted to shift to natural gas, wind and solar, driven by cost concerns and state-level policies. Many states, like California and New York, are 
already moving ahead of the targets set by the Clean Power Plan as they develop their own climate policies. 
Gov. John Hickenlooper of Colorado, a Democrat, noted that his state planned to exceed the goals that had been set under the Clean Power Plan because the state was closing coal plants early and developing jobs in wind and other renewables. 
"We have dramatically cleaner air and we are saving money. My question to the E.P.A. would be, 'Which part of that don't you like?"' Mr. Hickenlooper said. 
A new analysis by the research firm Rhodium Group estimated that United States electricity emissions are currently on track to fall 27 to 35 percent below 2005 levels by 2030, roughly in the range of what the Clean Power Plan originally envisioned, even if the regulation is repealed. 
But John Larsen, the author of the Rhodium Group analysis, estimated that if Mr. Obama's policies had remained in place, as many as 21 states would have had to make deeper reductions than they are currently expected to do without the rule -- including Texas, West Virginia, Georgia, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin -- and emissions most likely would have fallen further than the 32 percent originally envisioned. 
"So for certain states," Mr. Larsen wrote, "today's announcement is a big deal." 
Experts also note that the Clean Power Plan would have prevented a rebound in coal use in case natural gas unexpectedly became more expensive or various policies to promote renewable energy were blunted. The repeal comes on the heels of a proposal by the Department of Energy to subsidize coal and nuclear plants by revamping electricity markets. 
Jody Freeman, director of the environmental law program at Harvard Law School, said the Energy Department proposal combined with the Clean Power Plan repeal signaled that the Trump administration was putting its thumb on the scale in favor of fossil fuels. 
"You see a pretty powerful message. Disavow any effort to control greenhouse gases in the power sector, and instead, intervene in the market to promote coal. It's a wow," she said. 
What happens next? 
Mr. Pruitt's proposal for repeal will now have to go through a formal public-comment period before being finalized, a process that could take months. Mr. Pruitt will also ask the public for comment on what a replacement rule should look like, but the E.P.A. has not offered a timeline. 
Environmental groups and Democratic-controlled states are expected to challenge these moves on multiple fronts. 
The attorneys general of New York and Massachusetts said they intended to sue the E.P.A. once the repeal is finalized. 
"Fuel-burning power plants are one of our nation's largest sources of climate change pollution, and common-sense science -- and the law -- dictate that E.P.A. take action to cut these emissions," Eric T. Schneiderman, New York's attorney general, said in a statement. "I will use every available legal tool to fight their dangerous agenda." 
That raises the question of whether the Trump administration can craft and finalize a replacement rule by the 2020 election. Failure to do so, some industry groups worry, could allow a new administration to start over and impose a more stringent climate plan on power plants. 
Partly for that reason, many states are already preparing for the prospect of tougher carbon regulations down the road. 
Consider Arkansas, one of the states that challenged the Clean Power Plan in court. Ted J. Thomas, the chairman of the Arkansas Public Service Commission, says that his state is nonetheless in the process of shifting from coal to cheaper natural gas. The initial rule also persuaded the state to start exploring clean-energy options, like expanding wind power, promoting the use of smart meters and developing a working group to look at carbon capture technology for coal plants. 
"Even if they repeal the Clean Power Plan, or replace it with something that doesn't require us to do very much, you still have to reckon with the fact that ultimately regulations on carbon are coming," Mr. Thomas said. "So we need to develop options to deal with that other than sticking our heads in the sand and hoping we can just file lawsuits forever." 
"You can either be prepared or unprepared," he added, "and that's a pretty simple choice." 
Follow @NYTClimate on Twitter 
Photograph 
Scott Pruitt, the Chief of the Environmental Protection Agency, in June. He Had Challenged the Clean Power Plan in the Courts. (Photograph by Al Drago/the New York Times) (A17) 
Copyright New York Times Company Oct 10, 2017 
Subject 	Regulation; 
Electricity; 
Greenhouse gases; 
Emissions; 

Carbon; 
Coal-fired power plants; 
Environmental protection; 
Alternative energy sources; 

Environmental policy; 
Natural gas utilities; 
Greenhouse effect; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Climate change; 
Emission standards; 
Environmental regulations 


Location 	United States--US 
People  Trump, Donald J  
Company / organization  Name:  Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS:  924110  

Title  E.P.A. Announces Bid to Roll Back Emissions Policy: [National Desk]  
Author  Friedman, Lisa; Plumer, Brad  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.1  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Oct 10, 2017  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1948896592  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1948896592?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Oct 10, 2017  
Last updated  2017-11-24  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 233 of 236 



Environmental Rules On the Way Out: [National Desk] 
Popovich, Nadja; Albeck-Ripka, Livia.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]07 Oct 2017: A.15. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=Environmental+Rules+On+the+Way+Out%3A+%5BNational+Desk%5D&title=N 10-07&volume=&issue=&spage=A.15&au=Popovich%2C+Nadja%3BAlbeck-Ripka%2C+Livia&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Since taking office in January, President Trump has made eliminating federal regulations a priority. His administration -- with help from Republicans in Congress -- has often targeted environmental rules it sees as overly burdensome to the fossil fuel industry, including major Obama-era policies aimed at fighting climate change. 
To date, the Trump administration has sought to reverse more than 50 environmental rules, according to an analysis by The New York Times. 
This list reflects three types of policy changes: rules that have been officially reversed; announcements and changes still in progress, pending reviews and other rule-making procedures; and regulations whose status is unclear because of delays or court actions. (Several rules were undone but later reinstated after legal challenges.) 
Regulations have often been reversed as a direct response to petitions from oil, coal and gas companies and other industry groups, which have enjoyed a much closer relationship with key figures in the Trump administration than under President Barack Obama. 
Scott Pruitt, the head of the Environmental Protection Agency, has met almost daily with industry executives and lobbyists. (As Oklahoma's attorney general, Mr. Pruitt sued the agency he now oversees more than a dozen times to try to block Obama-era rules.) The E.P.A. has been involved in nearly one-third of the policy reversals identified by The Times. 
Here are the details for each policy targeted by the administration so far -- including who lobbied to get the regulations changed. Are there rules we missed? Email climateteam@nytimes.com or tweet @nytclimate. 
Overturned 
1.
 Revoked Obama-era flood standards for federal infrastructure projects 

2.
 Rejected a ban on a potentially harmful insecticide 

3.
 Lifted a freeze on new coal leases on public lands 

4.
 Canceled a requirement for oil and gas companies to report methane emissions 

5.
 Revoked a rule that prevented coal companies from dumping mining debris into local streams 

6.
 Approved the Keystone XL pipeline 

7.
 Approved the Dakota Access pipeline 

8.
 Prohibited funding third-party projects through federal lawsuit settlements, which could include environmental programs 

9.
 Repealed a ban on offshore oil and gas drilling in the Atlantic and Arctic oceans 

10.
 Proposed the use of seismic air guns for gas and oil exploration in the Atlantic 

11.
 Revoked a 2016 order protecting the northern Bering Sea region in Alaska 

12.
 Repealed an Obama-era rule regulating royalties for oil, gas and coal 

13.
 Withdrew guidance for federal agencies to include greenhouse gas emissions in environmental reviews 

14.
 Relaxed the environmental review process for federal infrastructure projects 

15.
 Announced intent to stop payments to the Green Climate Fund 

16.
 Dropped proposed restrictions on mining in Bristol Bay, Alaska 

17.
 Removed the Yellowstone grizzly bear from the endangered list 

18.
 Overturned a ban on the hunting of predators in Alaskan wildlife refuges 

19.
 Withdrew proposed limits on endangered marine mammals caught by fishing nets on the West Coast 

20.
 Stopped discouraging the sale of plastic water bottles in national parks 

21.
 Rescinded an Obama-era order to consider climate change in managing natural resources in national parks 

22.
 Revoked directive for federal agencies to mitigate the environmental impacts of projects they approve 

23.
 Directed agencies to stop using an Obama-era calculation of the "social cost of carbon" 

24.
 Revoked an update to the Bureau of Land Management's public land use planning process 

25.
 Removed copper filter cake, an electronics manufacturing byproduct, from the "hazardous waste" list In Progress 

26.
 Proposed repeal and replacement of the Clean Power Plan 

27.
 Announced intent to withdraw the United States from the Paris climate agreement 

28.
 Proposed rescinding a rule that protected tributaries and wetlands under the Clean Water Act 

29.
 Reopened a review of fuel-efficiency standards for cars and trucks 

30.
 Recommended shrinking or modifying 10 national monuments 

31.
 Reviewing 12 marine protected areas 

32.
 Reviewing limits on toxic discharge from power plants into public waterways 

33.
 Reviewing rules regulating coal ash waste from power plants 

34.
 Reviewing emissions standards for new, modified and reconstructed power plants 

35.
 Reviewing emissions rules for power plant start-ups, shutdowns and malfunctions 

36.
 Announced plans to review greater sage grouse habitat protections 

37.
 Announced plans to rescind water pollution regulations for fracking on federal and Indian lands 

38.
 Ordered review of regulations on oil and gas drilling in national parks where mineral rights are privately owned 

39.
 Reviewing new safety regulations on offshore drilling 

40.
 Ordered a review of a rule regulating offshore oil and gas exploration by floating vessels in the Arctic 

41.
 Proposed ending a restriction on exploratory drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge 

42.
 Ordered a review of federal regulations on hunting methods in Alaska 

43.
 Proposed repeal of a requirement for reporting emissions on federal highways 

44.
 Announced a review of emissions standards for trailers and glider kits In Limbo 

45.
 Reviewing a rule limiting methane emissions at new oil and gas drilling sites 

46.
 Put on hold rules aimed at cutting methane emissions from landfills 

47.
 Proposed delay of rule limiting methane emissions on public lands 

48.
 Delayed a lawsuit over a rule regulating airborne mercury emissions from power plants 

49.
 Delayed a rule aiming to improve safety at facilities that use hazardous chemicals 

50.
 Continuing review of proposed groundwater protections for certain uranium mines 

51.
 Delayed compliance dates for federal building efficiency standards 

52.
 Withdrew a rule that would help consumers buy more fuel-efficient tires Some other rules were reinstated after legal challenges Environmental groups have sued the Trump administration over many of the proposed rollbacks, and, in some cases, have succeeded in reinstating environmental rules. > 


1.
 Delayed by one year a compliance deadline for new ozone pollution standards, but later reversed course 

2.
 Delayed publishing efficiency standards for household appliances 

3.
 Reinstated rule limiting the discharge of mercury by dental offices into municipal sewers 


Sources: Harvard Law School's Environmental Regulation Rollback Tracker; Columbia Law School's Climate Deregulation Tracker; Federal Register; Environmental Protection Agency; White House. 
Credit: NADJA POPOVICH and LIVIA ALBECK-RIPKA; Tatiana Schlossberg contributed reporting. 
Illustration 
CHARTS (Sources: Harvard Law School's Environmental Regulation Rollback Tracker; Columbia Law School's Climate Deregulation Tracker; Federal Register; Environmental Protection Agency; White House.) 
Copyright New York Times Company Oct 7, 2017 
Subject 	Government agencies; 
Bans; 

Law schools; 
Regulation; 
Emissions; 

Environmental regulations; 

Energy efficiency; 
Environmental protection; 
Emission standards; 
Offshore; 

Natural gas utilities; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Climate change; 
National parks; 
Coal; 
Litigation; 

Pipelines; 
Power plants 


Location 	Oklahoma 
People 	Pruitt, Scott; Obama, Barack 
Company / organization 	Name: New York Times Co 

NAICS: 511110, 511120, 515112, 515120; 


Name: Congress NAICS: 921120; 
Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA NAICS: 924110 
Title 	Environmental Rules On the Way Out: [National Desk] 
Author 	Popovich, Nadja; Albeck-Ripka, Livia 
Publication title 	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.15 
Publication year 	2017 
Publication date 	Oct 7, 2017 
Section 	A 
Publisher 	New York Times Company 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	General Interest Periodicals--United States 
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1947721571  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1947721571?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Oct 7, 2017  
Last updated  2017-11-24  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 234 of 236 



President's Rush to Deregulate Meets an Obstacle: The Courts: [National Desk] 
Lipton, Eric.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]07 Oct 2017: A.1. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=President%27s+Rush+to+Deregulate+Meets+an+Obstacle%3A+The+Courts%3 10-07&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Lipton%2C+Eric&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- The rapid-fire push by the Trump administration to wipe out significant chunks of the Obama environmental legacy is running into a not-so-minor complication: Judges keep ruling that the Trump team is violating federal law. 
The latest such ruling came late Wednesday, when a federal magistrate judge in Northern California vacated a move by the Department of Interior to delay compliance with rules curbing so-called flaring, a technique oil and gas companies use to burn off leaking methane. Flaring is blamed for contributing to climate change as well as lost tax revenues because the drilling is being done on federal land. 
It was the third time since July that the Environmental Protection Agency or the Interior Department has been found to have acted illegally in their rush to roll back environmental rules. And in three other environmental cases, the Trump administration reversed course on its own after lawsuits accusing it of illegal actions were filed by environmental groups and Democratic state attorneys general. 
The legal reversals reflect how aggressively Mr. Trump's critics are challenging the administration's efforts to rescind regulations enacted during the Obama administration, not only related to the environment, but to immigration, to consumer protection and to other areas. 
Yet even as the list of failed or at least stalled rollbacks continues to grow, the Trump administration, in many other cases, continues to move ahead with its agenda, often trying a number of different approaches to killing the same rule, so that early setbacks do not necessarily mean anything has been settled. 
"The Trump administration is confident in its legal positions and looks forward to arguing -- and winning -- before the federal judiciary," Kelly Love, a White House spokeswoman, said in a statement. "This is in stark contrast to the previous administration, which may be the worst win rate before the Supreme Court since the Taylor administration in the early 1850s." 
Still, the string of court rulings and administrative reversals -- even some conservative legal scholars agree -- is a sign that the Trump administration has been in such a rush to undo the Obama legacy that it is almost inviting legal challenges. 
"If I were in this administration, this should be seen as a warning sign," said Jonathan H. Adler, the director of the Center for Business Law & Regulation at Case Western Reserve University School of Law. "The message is clear: Guys, we have a problem here. We are trying to do stuff that is hard and we are not crossing our i's and t's." 
Environmentalists see it as proof that Mr. Trump and his team care little about honoring federal law. 
"It shows serial lawbreaking and sloppiness by a Trump administration bent on rollbacks," said John Walke, the director of the clean air project at the Natural Resources Defense Council. "It is sad they have to have their comeuppance in courts rather than doing what was right." 
But this is hardly the first administration to have administrative decisions overturned as a result of court challenges. Environmentalists challenging the moves by George W. Bush to loosen air pollution rules won 27 court rulings during his eight-year tenure. 
And the Obama administration itself was repeatedly challenged by environmentalists. In a recent decision related to two billion tons in coal leases on federal land in the Powder River Basin of Wyoming, for example, the United States Court of Appeals for the 10th Circuit concluded that the Democratic administration's decision to approve the leases was "arbitrary or capricious" because it did not adequately consider the effect mining all this coal would have on climate change. 
But even within the White House, there is awareness that the agencies need to be more careful to avoid further stumbles. 
"There are concerns," Neomi Rao, the head of the Office of Management and Budget division that oversees major federal rules, said in an interview this summer, shortly after she assumed her post. "Agencies want to move quickly to get things done." 
Policy experts say the reversals also underscore the fact that crucial positions within the E.P.A. and the Interior Department remain unfilled, and that a lack of trust exists between political appointees and career staff members. 
"The career people at E.P.A. and D.O.J. are top-notch lawyers," said Richard J. Lazarus, an environmental law professor at Harvard University. "But you have political people come in, and they don't trust them at all and try to do it without them." 
Xavier Becerra, the attorney general of California, who has been perhaps the most aggressive of the state officials suing to challenge Trump administration rollbacks, said he hopes the White House is getting the message. 
"No man, no woman is above the law," Mr. Becerra said in an interview, shortly after the California magistrate judge ruled that the Interior Department had illegally postponed the enforcement of the methane flaring rule. "You have to follow the rule of law. It makes no difference if you are in the White House or not." 
Each of the rules at the center of these legal challenges has major public implications. 
The Department of Interior methane rule reinstated by a federal court on Wednesday will annually eliminate the equivalent of greenhouse gas emissions from about 950,000 vehicles, according to an Obama administration estimate, while also generating millions of dollars in extra federal revenues because oil and gas companies right now do not pay royalties on methane they flare off in giant torches that light the sky. 
But the Interior Department, under new leadership, argued that these environmental benefits were not worth the costs. 
"Small independent oil and gas producers in states like North Dakota, Colorado and New Mexico, which account for a substantial portion of our nation's energy wealth, could be hit the hardest," Katharine MacGregor, a senior Interior Department official, said in a statement this spring. 
The federal court judges were not impressed by the legal arguments the Interior Department and E.P.A. made as they separately moved to repeal the Obama-era rules related to methane, which is considered a major factor in climate change. 
Efforts by Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. administrator, to postpone his agency's methane rule were "unlawful," "arbitrary" and "capricious," a three-judge panel said in July. 
"Agencies obviously have broad discretion to reconsider a regulation at any time," the judges ruled. "To do so, however, they must comply with the Administrative Procedure Act (APA), including its requirements for notice and comment." 
There are signs that the Trump administration is hearing this message. As in three other recent cases, the administration has given up efforts to roll back rules after lawsuits were filed to challenge them even before any judges had ruled on the merits of the arguments. 
Those reversals involve rules intended to reduce asthma-causing ozone pollution, toxic mercury contamination in water supplies and a requirement that state transportation departments monitor greenhouse gas emission levels on national highways and set targets for reducing them. 
Kyle Danish, who represents oil and gas companies and electric utilities for the law firm Van Ness Feldman in Washington, said the administration is learning an important lesson: even rolling back regulations involves bureaucracy. 
"There's an irony here that an administration that is upset about the administrative state is going to need multiple rules just to change the rules. But that's the reality," he said. 
Not everyone is concerned by the court setbacks. Matt Letourneau, a spokesman for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, called them "relatively minor blips in a much larger, longer-term effort," and he noted that the Department of Energy has won recent cases against environmental groups related to the transport of liquefied natural gas. 
Even with these setbacks, the list of environmental rules that have been delayed or reversed is considerable, including reversing freezes on new federal coal leases, offshore drilling in the Atlantic and Arctic Oceans and lifting mining restrictions in Bristol Bay, Alaska. 
And just because courts are ruling against the Trump administration, it does not mean the fights are over. 
On Thursday, for example, the day after the court overturned its effort to delay the flaring rule, the Interior Department posted a new notice in the Federal Register indicating its intent to delay the date again, until January 2019. This time, though, the agency is inviting public comments on the delay. 
But there is no doubt the legal challenges are slowing down the march to roll back the Obama legacy. And it could complicate other even higher profile pushes to repeal rules, like the Clean Power Plan -- intended to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from electric power plants, a move that will generate another wave of legal challenges that will build off arguments made in recent cases. 
Mr. Lazarus said some problems might be alleviated once Mr. Trump nominates and the Senate confirms more high-level appointees, who have more experience in handing complicated legal steps needed to rollback rules. 
But filling these jobs has been slow. 
"There are a lot of fabulous Republican lawyers out there," he said, "and a lot of them don't want to be tainted by this administration." 
Credit: ERIC LIPTON; Lisa Friedman contributed reporting. 

Photograph 
A Court Wednesday Blocked an Attempt to Delay Compliance with Rules That Ban Flaring, a Technique Used to Burn Leaking Methane. (Photograph by Charles Rex Arbogast/Associated Presss); Scott Pruitt, Administrator of the E.P.A. He has Led an Effort by the Administration to Scale Back Obama-Era Regulations On the Environment, but Opponents Have Fought Back, and Won, in Court. (Photograph by Doug Mills/the New York Times); Xavier Becerra, Attorney General of California, has Fought Efforts to Cut Regulations. "You Have to Follow the Rule of Law," He Said. (Photograph by Mike Blake/Reuters) (A15) 
Copyright New York Times Company Oct 7, 2017 
Subject 	Greenhouse gases; 
Leases; 
Emissions; 

Environmentalists; 
Rule of law; 

Air pollution; 

Political appointments; 
Environmental protection; 
Federal court decisions; 
Natural gas utilities; 
Legal arguments; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Climate change; 
Coal; 
Judges & magistrates; 

Environmental regulations; 


Regulatory reform;  
Federal legislation;  
Environmental policy  
Location  California; United States--US; Northern California  
People  Trump, Donald J; Obama, Barack  
Title  President's Rush to Deregulate Meets an Obstacle: The Courts: [National Desk]  
Author  Lipton, Eric  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.1  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Oct 7, 2017  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1947720546  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1947720546?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Oct 7, 2017  
Last updated  2017-11-24  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 235 of 236 


$222 Billion Shift Hits a Snag: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Reed, Stanley.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]07 Oct 2017: B.1. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=%24222+Billion+Shift+Hits+a+Snag%3A+%5BBusiness%2FFinancial+Desk%5D 10-07&volume=&issue=&spage=B.1&au=Reed%2C+Stanley&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
CORRECTION APPENDED. BETZIGAU, Germany -- Katharina Zinnecker's farm in the foothills of the German Alps has been in the family since 1699. But to squeeze a living from it today, she and her husband need to do more than sell the milk from their herd of cows. 
So they carpeted the roofs of their farm buildings with solar panels. And thanks to hefty government guarantees, what they earn from selling electricity is "safe money, not like cows," Ms. Zinnecker said. "Milk prices go up and down." 
The farm has been a beneficiary of "Energiewende," the German word for energy transition. Over the past two decades, Germany has focused its political will and treasure on a world-leading effort to wean its powerful economy off the traditional energy sources blamed for climate change. 
The benefits of the program have not been universally felt, however. A de facto class system has emerged, saddling a group of have-nots with higher electricity bills that help subsidize the installation of solar panels and wind turbines elsewhere. 
Germany has spent an estimated 189 billion euros, or about $222 billion, since 2000 on renewable energy subsidies. But emissions have been stuck at roughly 2009 levels, and rose last year, as coal-fired plants fill a void left by Germany's decision to abandon nuclear power. That has raised questions -- and anger -- over a program meant to make the country's power sector greener. 
This lack of progress is an "illustration of the partial failure of the energy transition," said Artur Lenkowski, an energy analyst at IHS Markit, a research firm. "The whole point of the energy transition was to lower greenhouse gas emissions." 
Now, Energiewende is at a crossroads. Chancellor Angela Merkel may have won a fourth term as Germany's leader after elections last month, but her party lost sway. She must form a coalition with the left-leaning Greens and the pro-business Free Liberals, parties that have diametrically opposing views, including on environmental policies. 
How such a diverse group comes together will affect whether Germany reaches its goal for carbon emissions. It wants a cut of 40 percent, compared to 1990 levels, by 2020, and of 95 percent by 2050. 
The clean energy movement has deep roots in Germany. 
Alternative sources of electric power are flourishing in the Allgäu, a region of rolling pastures, pine forests and domed churches that is home to Ms. Zinnecker's family-owned farm. 
In Wildpoldsried, a village of 2,600 a short drive from the farm, around [euro]40 million has been invested over the years -- much of it by residents -- into an array of renewable power sources and improvements in energy efficiency. The brightly painted, wood-trimmed houses are heated cheaply by generators fueled by methane gas from cow manure, and wind turbines nearly 500 feet tall provide electricity from the hillsides. 
Günter Mögele, Wildpoldsried's deputy mayor and energy coordinator, said that the village's decision in the late 1990s to focus on renewable energy had paid off. 
Overall, the village generates about seven times as much energy as it consumes, and the surplus is sold to the grid. The income from solar panels on public buildings is fed back into the public purse. It is often doled out to subsidize residents' shifts to green power, and to reduce fees for the local music club and sports facility. 
But renewable energy subsidies are financed through electric bills, meaning that Energiewende is a big part of the reason prices for consumers have doubled since 2000. 
These big increases "are absolutely not O.K.," said Thomas Engelke, team leader for construction and energy at the Federation of German Consumer Organizations, an umbrella organization of consumer groups. 
The higher prices have had political consequences. 
The far-right party Alternative for Germany, which won enough support in the recent elections to enter Parliament, has called for an "immediate exit" from Energiewende. The party, known by its German initials AfD, sees the program as a "burden" on German households, and many supporters have come into its fold in part because of the program's mounting costs. 
Julian Hermneuwöhner is one such voter. Mr. Hermneuwöhner, a 27-year-old computer science student, said his family paid an additional [euro]800 a year because of Energiewende. 
"But it hasn't brought lower CO2 emissions," he said. "It's frustrating that we're paying so much more, because the country hasn't gotten anything for it." 
As a clean energy pioneer, Germany has not always seen the results it desired from its heavy spending. 
For instance, the country has focused on cleaning up electric power generation, with some success. About one-third of German electricity now comes from renewable sources, a fivefold increase since 2000. In the United States, that figure was about 15 percent last year. Britain generates about a quarter of its power from renewables, and France about 19 percent. 
But that progress has been undone somewhat by the government's decision to accelerate its phase out of nuclear power after the 2011 disaster in Fukushima, Japan. That has made the country more reliant on its sizable fleet of coal-fired power stations, which account for the bulk of emissions from electricity generation. 
The country has yet to address the transport industry, where emissions have increased as the economy boomed and more cars and trucks hit the road. Unlike Britain and France, Germany has not set a date to end the sale of diesel and gasoline cars. 
Recent political experience does not bode well for Germany. The so-called grand coalition between Ms. Merkel's Christian Democrats and the Social Democrats, which governed from 2013 until the recent elections, was bogged down with so many competing interests that it was unable to push ahead on energy policy. 
Advocates of Energiewende charge that Germany is in danger of falling behind rivals like China and the United States in the potentially vast, and fast-growing, business of developing and exporting clean-energy technologies. And without new direction, they say, the country will most likely fail to meet its carbon emissions targets. 
How the government comes to terms with these problems will be crucial for the sector and for consumers. 
Germany has already moved to bring subsidies under control. In particular, it has driven down costs by introducing an auction system for new renewables projects -- though it is still on the hook for subsidy payments for the 20-year life of existing projects. 
A bigger issue may be that Germany has already taken some of the easier steps in its energy transition by making industry more energy efficient and building up renewables. 
Further progress will require taking on tougher targets. That would mean challenging the politically powerful auto and coal industries, including unions and companies, that have opposed plant shutdowns. 
"Some of the low-hanging fruit might be gone now," said Tim Boersma, a senior research scholar at the Center on Global Energy Policy at Columbia University. "It is becoming clear how challenging making this overall transition is." 
Follow Stanley Reed on Twitter: @stanleyreed12. 
Correction: October 10, 2017, Tuesday 
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A picture caption on Saturday with an article about challenges facing Germany's clean energy industry misspelled the surname of a farmer in Betzigau, Germany, who, with his wife, has installed solar panels on his property. He is Norbert Bechteler, not Bechtelier. 
Credit: STANLEY REED; Edmund Heaphy contributed reporting from Berlin. 

Photograph 
GüNter MöGele, Deputy Mayor and Energy Coordinator in Wildpoldsried, a German Village of 2,600 That has Invested in Green Energy Projects Like Solar Panels. (B1); Katharina Zinnecker and Norbert Bechtelier at Their Farm in Betzigau, Germany. They Also Use Solar Panels to Sell Electricity.; Testing Batteries at Sonnenbatterie, a Start-Up in Wildpoldsried. The Village Invests in Renewable Power and Energy Efficiency. (Photographs by Corinna Kern for the New York Times) (B2) 
Copyright New York Times Company Oct 7, 2017 
Subject 	Farm buildings; 

Electricity distribution; 
Emissions; 

Clean technology; 

Subsidies; 
Politics; 

Consumers; 

Electric power; 
Electric rates; 
Energy efficiency; 
Alternative energy sources; 

Renewable resources; 
Environmental policy; 
Energy policy; 
Consumer organizations; 
Coal; 
Climate change 


Location 	Germany 
People 	Merkel, Angela 
Company / organization 	Name: IHS Markit 

NAICS: 511210, 519130, 541512, 541910 


Title 	$222 Billion Shift Hits a Snag: [Business/Financial Desk] 
Author  Reed, Stanley  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.1  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Oct 7, 2017  
Section  B  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1947719687  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1947719687?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Oct 7, 2017  
Last updated  2017-11-24  
Database  Global Newsstream  

document 236 of 236 


The FOIA Request, and the Flashback: [Metropolitan Desk] 
Lipton, Eric.New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]05 Oct 2017: A.2. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&atitle=The+FOIA+Request%2C+and+the+Flashback%3A+%5BMetropolitan+Desk%5D 10-05&volume=&issue=&spage=A.2&au=Lipton%2C+Eric&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
It was exactly six years ago -- a lifetime in the world of politics in Washington -- that A.J. Ferate, then a senior regulatory lawyer and lobbyist at Devon Energy in Oklahoma City, first reached out to Scott Pruitt, then a little-known first-term attorney general, to ask for a bit of help. 
Back in 2011, Devon executives were so determined to try to stop the Environmental Protection Agency from enacting a new rule intended to more aggressively limit methane leaks from oil and gas wells -- a potent contributor to climate change -- that they drafted a letter for Mr. Pruitt to send to Lisa Jackson, then the E.P.A. administrator. Ferate followed up. 
Mr. Pruitt's office sent the letter nearly verbatim. 
Devon Energy ultimately donated hundreds of thousands of dollars to the Republican Attorneys General Association and an affiliated organization. The New York Times reported on that in 2014, detailing the alliance between Mr. Pruitt and the oil and gas industry while he served as Oklahoma's attorney general. Our stories were part of a package that won a Pulitzer Prize. 
So why return to it now? 
Well, until this year, Mr. Pruitt was never really able to deliver on what Mr. Ferate, and Devon Energy, wanted: the termination of the methane rule, and of a related effort by the 
E.P.A. to collect data on methane emissions by oil and gas companies. 
I found myself thinking back to that history this past weekend, as my colleague Lisa Friedman and I worked our way through a 316-page document detailing Mr. Pruitt's daily activities in the first months after he became the E.P.A. administrator, for a story we published on Tuesday. The New York Times had filed a Freedom of Information request for Mr. Pruitt's calendar, with no response from the agency. But the nonprofit group American Oversight sued 
the E.P.A. over its slow response to a similar request it had filed and received a copy, which it provided to The Times. 
Lisa covers the E.P.A. for The Times. I write about regulatory policy and lobbying. We spent much of the weekend reading through Mr. Pruitt's calendar. 
Page after page showed Mr. Pruitt holding meetings with lobbyists and top executives from automobile manufacturers; oil industry giants; pork and soybean farmers; coal 

mining companies; chemical companies; coal-burning electric utilities; conservative media outlets; Republican lawmakers; even Steve Bannon and Ivanka Trump (they had a 

half-hour each, in successive meetings, on the same day, before Mr. Trump's decision on the Paris climate agreement). 
Mr. Pruitt had traveled to speak to industry groups at resorts in Naples, Fla., and Scottsdale, Ariz., and had fancy meals with industry executives at restaurants like Equinox and 
BLT Prime, and at the Trump International Hotel in Washington. 

But there on Page 180 of the schedule was a detail that to me was perhaps the most fascinating of all: a brief description of a 30-minute meeting Mr. Pruitt had in his office at 
E.P.A. headquarters with an acquaintance he knew from Oklahoma. 
A.J. Ferate, now the vice president of regulatory affairs at the Oklahoma Independent Petroleum Association, which represents the industry statewide, was penciled in on March 27 at 3:15 p.m. 
How the world had changed. 
Few could have predicted back in 2011 that Mr. Pruitt was going to end up as the E.P.A. administrator. (I called Mr. Ferate this week and spoke with him briefly, asking if he 
himself could have imagined this turn of events. He said he did not want to comment.) 

But now, five and a half years later, he had come to Mr. Pruitt's office to thank him for moving to kill a part of the exact rule they had teamed up, without luck, to try to block in 
2011. (Mr. Pruitt has moved to kill the entire methane rule, but, so far, a court has blocked him from doing that.) 
It is a small detail, to be sure. But journalism, at its core, is a form of history. This was a reminder once again of how the course of history has changed in this new Trump era. 


Photograph 
Scott Pruitt in July 2014, During His Tenure As Oklahoma Attorney General. (Photograph by Nick Oxford for the New York Times) Copyright New York Times Company Oct 5, 2017 
Subject  Attorneys general;  
Natural gas utilities;  
Environmental law;  
Philanthropy;  
Freedom of information  
Location  Oklahoma; United States--US  
People  Bannon, Stephen K; Pruitt, Scott; Ferate, A J  
Company / organization  Name: Devon Energy Corp  
NAICS: 211111;  
Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS: 924110;  
Name: Republican Attorneys General Association  
NAICS: 813920  
Title  The FOIA Request, and the Flashback: [Metropolitan Desk]  
Author  Lipton, Eric  
Publication title  New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.2  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Oct 5, 2017  
Section  A  
Publisher  New York Times Company  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  General Interest Periodicals--United States  
ISSN  03624331  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1946920191  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1946920191?accountid=14902  
Copyright  Copyright New York Times Company Oct 5, 2017  
Last updated  2017-11-25  
Database  Global Newsstream  

Database copyright © 2019 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved. Terms and Conditions 


