Back to previous page 
document 1 of 376 
The Electric Kool-Aid Subsidy Test 
Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]31 Dec 2018: A.16. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=The+Electric+Kool­Aid+Subsidy+Test&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2018-12­31&volume=&issue=&spage=A.16&au=&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
President Trump's recent blowup over General Motors layoffs was largely misdirected, though it may spur at least one good policy result. Killing subsidies for electric cars and trucks would be a victory for taxpayers, the federal fisc and the car industry. 
Mr. Trump's initial response to GM's plant closure news was to threaten to punish the company by stripping its federal subsidies. White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow later acknowledged that Mr. Trump can't legally single out GM for subsidy retribution. Instead the White House may take the better route of proposing to eliminate subsidies for electric vehicles, in particular the $7,500 consumer tax credit for battery-powered cars. 
That handout began as part of the Obama 2009 "stimulus," and as always supporters said it would be temporary. A decade on, GM, Nissan and Tesla are nearing or exceeding the 200,000-per-manufacturer cap on EV sales that qualify for the full credit. So they are now seeking increases in the cap, joined by other car makers and Democrats preaching climate alarm. 
The credits are a classic middle-class-to-rich income transfer. EV batteries are expensive, which means the average starting price for electric cars is around $42,000. That's some $8,000 more than the average price of a new vehicle, and $22,000 more than the average price of a new gasoline-powered small car. 
Wayne Winegarden of the Pacific Research Institute looked at 2014 IRS data and found that 79% of federal EV tax credits were claimed by households with adjusted gross income of more than $100,000. Only 1% of EV buyers earned less than $50,000. 
Some states and localities also hand out EV breaks, allowing consumers to reap up to $15,000 (California) or $10,500 (Connecticut) per car. This means the federal program is also a geographic wealth transfer, benefiting mainly wealthy coastal havens. The latest sales data from August shows that 53% of EV sales were in California. The subsidy will cost some $2 billion through fiscal 2019. And taxpayers will also have shelled out another $5.5 billion directly to car makers in federal grants and loans for manufacturing and technology programs by 2019, according to the Winegarden data. 
Yet this largesse has not changed the economics of the electric car market. Despite advances in EV technology and all of this government support, most auto makers sell their electric vehicles at a loss. A 2016 Bloomberg News story reported that GM could lose as much as $9,000 on every Chevrolet Bolt. 
Automakers stick with these EV losers because nearly a dozen states have adopted mandates requiring that EVs make up a certain percentage of all vehicle sales. Even then, most consumers need coaxing to buy. When Georgia ended its $5,000 state tax credit in 2015, sales of electric vehicles fell 89% in two months. EVs have been on the market since 2010 and are still only about 0.5% of total vehicle sales. 
Auto makers worry that without federal subsidies the state EV mandates may make EV production financially ruinous. But then states should end the mandates, or they can pick up the federal $7,500 tab. 
As for climate change, studies show that total CO2 emissions from EV cars can even exceed those of conventional gas vehicles -- depending on what fuel is producing the electricity to charge the batteries (coal) and how long a car battery charge lasts. 
Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin said this month that the White House will "seriously consider" ending EV subsidies in its next budget, and that could be useful policy leverage with House Democrats. If electric cars are the future, let them earn that success in an unsubsidized marketplace. 
(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: Are Electric Cars Worth the Taxpayer Charge?" -- WSJ Jan. 7, 2019) 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject 	Editorials; Automobile industry; Tax credits; Electric vehicles; Consumers; Automobile sales 
Location  Connecticut; Georgia; California  
People  Trump, Donald J; Kudlow, Lawrence A; Mnuchin, Steven T  
Company / organization  Name: Internal Revenue Service--IRS  
NAICS: 921130;  
Name: Pacific Research Institute  
NAICS: 541711;  
Name: General Motors Corp  
NAICS: 333415, 336111, 336390  
Title  The Electric Kool-Aid Subsidy Test  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
First page  A.16  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Dec 31, 2018  
column  REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  2161636933  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2161636933?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2019-01-09  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 2 of 376 


Defeat in the Air at the Climate Conference 
Darwall, Rupert.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]19 Dec 2018: A.17. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Defeat+in+the+Air+at+the+Climate+Conference&title=Wall+Street+ 12-19&volume=&issue=&spage=A.17&au=Darwall%2C+Rupert&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Katowice, Poland -- The latest climate talks ended here Saturday, a day late, with agreement largely reached on a rule book to implement the nonbinding Paris Agreement. The bigger story is how the United Nations climate process is losing its battle with reality. 
"Will civilization descend into another dark age?" Al Gore bellowed. "I'm getting worked up early." Yet compared with the euphoria three years ago in Paris, defeat hung in the air as delegates faced the realization that whatever they agreed in the hall had little relevance to developments in the world. 
Negotiators sought to slow the rise of greenhouse emissions -- around 2% a year world-wide for the past two decades. For the three years straddling the 2015 Paris conference, carbon-dioxide emissions were more or less flat. Then they resumed their upward trend -- up 1.6% in 2017 and a projected 2.7% this year. According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report released on the eve of the conference, all scenarios limiting warming to 2.7 degrees Fahrenheit assume steep reductions in coal consumption -­to zero by 2050. 
That's not going to happen. According to the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, a German think tank close to Chancellor Angela Merkel, what it calls the renaissance of coal continues, using up the available carbon budget within a decade. 
Speaker after speaker at conference side-events spoke of expanded coal use. Turkey has plans for 80 new power stations to double its coal capacity and reduce dependence on imports. Chinese provinces are lobbying for more coal and Beijing is investing in coal infrastructure abroad. So are Japan, South Korea and Australia. During his September visit to Indonesia, South Korea's President Moon Jae-in oversaw a deal to build two new coal plants there. Before the conference, in Polish coal country, Warsaw had declared it would continue burning coal -- a matter of national security when the principal alternative is Russian natural gas. 
Explaining why the efforts thus far hadn't bent the curve of rising emissions, the Potsdam Institute's chief economist, Ottmar Edenhofer, said the fundamental reality was an oversupply of fossil fuels, making it harder for renewables to be cost-competitive with coal. An underappreciated factor, he suggested, is monetary policy. Zero interest rates act as an artificial stimulus to renewable energy, which is much more capital-intensive than gas and coal. To students of Austrian economics, it's a classic malinvestment: When interest rates are suppressed below the natural rate, too much of the wrong sort of investment leads to a boom, then a bust. 
As interest rates rise, renewable energy can't compete without carbon pricing -- economists' magic bullet to solve global warming. Therein lies the biggest cause of despair at Katowice. Thanks to French President Emmanuel Macron's carbon-tax folly, politicians of all stripes are likely to treat carbon pricing like the plague. Denunciations of "madmen" such as President Trump and Brazil's President-elect Jair Bolsonaro came easily at the conference. A much harder problem is the defeat of Mr. Macron at the hands of the gilets jaunes. Reality has a way of fighting back. 
Mr. Darwall is author of "Green Tyranny: Exposing the totalitarian roots of the Climate Industrial Complex (2017)." 
Credit: By Rupert Darwall 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject  Interest rates; Emissions; Carbon; Presidents; Climate change; Coal  
Location  Beijing China; Turkey; Australia; Poland; Brazil; Indonesia; Japan; South Korea  
People  Trump, Donald J; Gore, Albert Jr; Merkel, Angela; Macron, Emmanuel; Bolsonaro, Jair; Moon Jae-in  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  United Nations--UN 928120;  

Name: Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change NAICS: 541712, 928120 
Title  Defeat in the Air at the Climate Conference  
Author  Darwall, Rupert  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.17  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Dec 19, 2018  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  2158146440  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2158146440?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2019-01-02  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 3 of 376 


World News: U.S. Helped to Shape Climate Rulebook --- Officials move to protect American interests after 2017 Paris accord pullout 
Peker, Emre.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]17 Dec 2018: A.8. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=World+News%3A+U.S.+Helped+to+Shape+Climate+Rulebook+--­+Officials+move+to+protect+American+interests+after+2017+Paris+accord+pullout&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2018-12­17&volume=&issue=&spage=A.8&au=Peker%2C+Emre&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Despite White House pushback against the Paris climate accord, U.S. negotiators played a significant role in driving a compromise effort to establish a new rulebook to curb 
global warming. 
Negotiators from around the world agreed on Saturday on guidelines that would bolster the 2015 accord amid concerns countries would fail to deliver on commitments to fight 
what many scientists call a rising threat from climate change. 

President Trump decided last year to pull out of the agreement and an increasing number of countries have followed him in questioning it. But behind the scenes, engagement 

by Washington highlighted U.S. interest in shaping global rules even as the administration walks away from international deals. 
The U.S. shift at the talks in Katowice, Poland, was evident. The U.S. hosted an event on the sidelines to promote fossil fuels, including coal. Washington also joined Saudi 
Arabia, Russia and Kuwait in weakening a motion to welcome an October U.N. climate report warning of irreversible changes in 12 years if global warming isn't limited. 

But simultaneously, U.S. negotiators participated in crunch discussions past the summit's Friday close to secure a deal. 

"The U.S. is half-in, half-out," said Bas Eickhout, a Dutch lawmaker with the European Green Party in the European Parliament and former U.N. climate report contributor. "On 
the political level, they will be obstructive. On the technical-negotiations level they will usually be good in drafting compromise language." 
The State Department said the U.S. participates in climate change talks to protect its interests. 
"U.S. negotiators -- a dedicated group of professionals from across the federal government -- worked tirelessly to advance core U.S. interests and worked with partners to 

identify ways to level the playing field for U.S. businesses," a spokesman said. 

The compromise marked an effort to bridge longstanding gaps between rich and poor countries on curbing greenhouse-gas emissions, an issue global leaders led by President 
Obama and China's Xi Jinping delayed addressing to clinch the Paris accord. 
Negotiators agreed on wording on transparent reporting requirements for greenhouse-gas emissions and progress toward curbing such releases. But Saturday's talks failed to 

reach consensus on more-ambitious targets to curb emissions, putting off the discussion until a September summit on the sidelines of the U.N. General Assembly. 
They also failed to reach a deal on what has been called the "unsung hero" of the Paris pact: a global carbon market pushed by China, the European Union and California. 
The EU's 28 countries have pledged more money and resources than any other party to the pact, providing 20.4 billion euros ($23.1 billion) in 2017 alone. China doesn't 

contribute financing, and Mr. Trump said the U.S. would cease the "draconian financial and economic burdens" of the accord. 

"We strongly believe that no country should have to sacrifice economic prosperity or energy security in pursuit of environmental sustainability," Mr. Trump's senior adviser on 
energy and climate affairs, Wells Griffith, said in Katowice. 
Protesters disrupted Mr. Griffith's speech, unfurling a banner depicting oil- and gas-drilling wells. 
Brazil introduced language to the draft rulebook that effectively derailed provisions on creating an international carbon market, officials and environmental organizations said. To 

avoid derailing the rulebook, the U.S., EU, China and Brazil brokered a compromise that delayed discussions on international cooperation and accounting terms until a climate summit in Chile next November. 
Alex Leary in Washington contributed to this article. 
Countries Pledge Tougher Targets 
The High Ambition Coalition, a group of countries that includes the EU and two dozen Paris-agreement signatories, pledged to raise their emission-reduction targets by the end of 2020. 
That means exceeding the pact's commitment to keep global warming "well below" two degrees Celsius, or 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit, in an effort to cap postindustrial temperature increases at 1.5 degrees Celsius. 
The difference of a half degree Celsius, or 0.9 degree Fahrenheit, will determine whether some ecosystems live and major cities avoid flooding, among other drastic changes, said the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. The U.N. scientific body, known as IPCC, assesses thousands of research papers published annually. 
"Every extra bit of warming matters," said Hans-Otto Portner, of the IPCC working group that drafted the U.N.'s October report. "Warming of 1.5 degrees Celsius or higher increases the risk associated with long-lasting or irreversible changes." 
Credit: By Emre Peker 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject  Emissions;  
Global warming;  
Greenhouse effect;  
Climate change  
Location  Russia; United States--US; Saudi Arabia; Kuwait; China; California; Poland; Chile; Brazil  
People  Trump, Donald J; Xi Jinping; Obama, Barack  
Company / organization  Name: European Parliament  
NAICS: 921120;  
Name: European Union  
NAICS: 926110, 928120;  
Name: Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change  
NAICS: 541712, 928120  
Title  World News: U.S. Helped to Shape Climate Rulebook --- Officials move to protect American  
interests after 2017 Paris accord pullout  
Author  Peker, Emre  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.8  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Dec 17, 2018  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2157289807  

Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2157289807?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-12-17  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 4 of 376 


EXCHANGE --- GE: Burned Out --- It was once America's most valuable company, the maker of power turbines, jet engines, TV shows and MRI machines. Fueled by a relentless optimism, it made and remade itself countless times. This is the story of how General Electric lost power. 
Gryta, Thomas; Mann, Ted.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]15 Dec 2018: B.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=EXCHANGE+---+GE%3A+Burned+Out+--­+It+was+once+America%27s+most+valuable+company%2C+the+maker+of+power+turbines%2C+jet+engines%2C+TV+shows+and+MRI+machines.+Fueled+by+a+relentless+ 12-15&volume=&issue=&spage=B.1&au=Gryta%2C+Thomas%3BMann%2C+Ted&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
They came by the dozens in luxury sedans, black Ubers and sleek helicopters. As they did each August, General Electric's most important executives descended on a hilltop 
above the Hudson River for their annual leadership gathering. 
Just an hour's drive from New York City or a short flight from Boston, Crotonville, N.Y., is the home of GE's management academy, famed for culling and cultivating a cadre of 
leaders the company saw as its most valuable product. 

Crotonville is where Jack Welch, GE's larger-than-life former chief executive, held his lecture sessions in "The Pit," a large sunken auditorium where he coached the future CEOs 

of companies such as Boeing and Home Depot. Welch remade and expanded the campus during his two decades running GE. 
Opened in 1956, the 60-acre property is half conference center, half country retreat. Behind a guard house lolls a mix of low-slung brick residence halls, classroom buildings and 
restaurants, a fieldstone plaza with a fireplace, hiking trails and a helipad. 

Welch and other GE bosses would visit nearly every month to lead programs for middle managers, customers and executives from other companies who wanted to learn the GE 

leadership magic. For the 300,000 people who work at GE, a trip to Crotonville is an ardent desire and a treasured accomplishment. 
This pilgrimage in August 2017 was different. The stock price had been slumping, and longtime CEO Jeff Immelt had just stepped down after a frustratingly middling 16-year 
tenure. The new boss, John Flannery, had started a monthslong review of every corner of America's last great industrial conglomerate. 

On that summer afternoon, the auditorium buzzed with whispers of what was ahead. No one doubted the 125-year-old company's ability to rise again. It always had. 
Then Jeff Bornstein started talking. 
The gruff, 52-year-old chief financial officer had lost out on the top job weeks earlier, but had committed to staying on to help the new CEO navigate the company's complicated 

structure. 

Bornstein launched into an exhortation: Run the company like you own it. Be the leaders General Electric bred you to be. You should all be accountable for every prediction made and every target missed. "I love this company," he said. Then, he stopped and took a breath -- deep and racked. He started again and stopped again. Jeff Bornstein, the shark-fishing, nicotine-gum­
chomping, weightlifting CFO, was crying. 
A Maine native, Bornstein had come to GE after college, eventually serving as finance chief of the lending arm, GE Capital, where he helped stave off the worst damage of the financial crisis. His rivals within the company found him blunt to a fault, willing to chastise or demean in public and private. He served as a counterbalance to Immelt's relentless optimism, and 
his finance chops brought him the respect of Wall Street. 
If this guy was fighting back tears, something must be seriously wrong. In the first six months of 2017, GE had earned hardly any of the $12 billion in cash it projected for the year. It would need at least $8 billion just to cover the dividends it had promised stockholders. The leadership meeting usually left executives refreshed, reassured that the foundation of GE's success was not the power turbines or the jet engines so much as the people in 
that room, managers groomed in Crotonville who believed they could enter any industry, anywhere and dominate it. 
Now, as they shuffled out after Bornstein's talk, many felt shock and confusion. The reckoning had been a long time coming, and it was far from over. GE had defined and 

outlived the American Century, deftly navigating the shoals of depression, world war and the globalization of business. Even when things were at their worst, its belief in its 
history and its prowess made it feel titanic and impregnable. And, yet, unsinkable GE was taking on water fast. 
THE ENGINE ROOM 
General Electric Co. helped invent the world as we know it: wired up, plugged in and switched on. Born of Thomas Alva Edison's ingenuity and John Pierpont Morgan's audacity, 

GE built the dynamos that generated the electricity, the wires that carried it and the lightbulbs that burned it. 

To keep the power and profits flowing day and night, GE connected neighborhoods with streetcars and cities with locomotives. It soon filled kitchens with ovens and toasters, living rooms with radios and TVs, bathrooms with curling irons and toothbrushes, and laundry rooms with washers and dryers. 
The modern GE was built by Jack Welch, the youngest CEO and chairman in company history when he took over in 1981. He ran it for 20 years, becoming the rare CEO who was also a household name, praised for his strategic and operational mastery. 
Welch, short, sharp and volatile, had an intense glare and a reedy growl that betrayed his blue-collar Massachusetts roots. He was obsessive about setting targets and hitting them. A chemical engineer by training, he once blew the roof off a GE factory. 
He expressed disdain for GE's bureaucracy from his earliest days there and later earned the nickname "Neutron Jack." He eliminated some 100,000 jobs in his early years as CEO and insisted that managers fire the bottom 10% of performers each year who failed to improve, in a process that became known as "rank and yank." GE's financial results were so eye-popping that the strategy was imitated throughout American business. 
"Fix it, close it or sell it" was a favorite slogan. Welch wanted to get out of any businesses where GE wasn't a market leader. 
At its peak, General Electric was the most valuable company in the U.S., worth nearly $600 billion in August 2000. That year, GE's third of a million employees operated 150 factories in the U.S., and another 176 in 34 other countries. Its pension plan covered 485,000 people. With nearly 10 billion shares outstanding, GE was also among the most widely owned stocks. The company paid dividends to more than 600,000 accounts, from individual investors to major mutual funds that served millions. 
GE had moved in and out of businesses since 1892: airplane engines, plastics, cannons, computers, MRI machines, oil-field drill bits, water-desalination units, television shows, movies, credit cards and insurance. The big machines were always GE's beating heart. But it was a willingness to expand into growing businesses and shed weaker ones that helped make it the rare conglomerate to survive the mass extinction of its rivals. 
The catalyst for GE's success during Welch's reign was that it worked more like a collection of businesses under the protection of a giant bank. As the financial sector came to drive more of the U.S. economy, GE Capital, the company's finance arm, powered more of the company's growth. At its height, Capital accounted for more than half of GE's profits. It rivaled the biggest banks in the country, competed with Wall Street for the brightest M.B.A.s and employed hundreds of bankers. 
GE Capital sucked in debt and spat out money. Created in the first half of the last century to help people buy home appliances, it now financed fast-food franchises, power plants and suburban McMansions, and leased out railroad tank cars, office buildings and airliners. The industrial spine of the company gave GE a AAA credit rating that allowed it to borrow money inexpensively, giving it an advantage over banks, which relied on deposits. The cash flowed up to headquarters where it powered the development of new jet engines and dividends for shareholders. 
Capital also gave General Electric's chief executives a handy, deep bucket of financial spackle with which to smooth over the cracks in quarterly earnings reports and keep Wall Street happy. Sometimes that meant peddling half a parking lot on the final day of a quarter, or selling a part interest in a power plant only to purchase it back after the quarter closed. 
Many Capital veterans relished their reputation as mavericks and cowboys, especially in comparison to their staid Wall Street rivals. They loved the story about Capital's then-CEO Gary Wendt renting a camper and driving across Eastern Europe in the early 1990s, buying up still sleepy banks as the post-Communist era dawned. The rest of the decade saw explosive growth, helping drive Jack Welch's fame into orbit. 
With shares trading above $150 in early 2000, Welch split the stock 3-for-1. It would prove to be a high-water mark. GE shares retreated in his final year after a failed takeover of rival Honeywell and the popping of the dot-com bubble. Still, GE shares were trading at 40 times its earnings when Welch retired in 2001, more than double where it had historically. And much of those profits were coming from deep within Capital, not the company's factories. 
Disaster hit immediately after Welch left. The Sept. 11 terrorist attacks -- four days after his handpicked successor, Jeff Immelt, took over -- hammered GE's insurance businesses and grounded the airline industry. Immelt began revamping the Welch portfolio, selling off the plastics division and most of the insurance lines. He didn't rein in the lending at Capital, which accounted for 38% of GE's revenue in 2008. 
When the financial crisis hit, Capital fell back to earth, taking GE's share price and Immelt with it. The stock closed as low as $6.66 in March 2009. General Electric was on the brink of collapse. The market for short-term loans, the lifeblood of GE Capital, had frozen, and there was little in the way of deposits to fall back on. The Federal Reserve stepped in to save it after an emergency plea from Immelt. 
After that, GE wasn't regarded like its fellow industrial companies -- big, slow-moving businesses that could project demand for their hulking machines over decades. Instead, the near-death experience taught investors to think of GE like a bank, a stock always vulnerable to another financial collapse. 
Bank supervisors from the Federal Reserve moved into a suite of offices in Capital's headquarters just off the Merritt Parkway in Norwalk, Conn. They hovered in meetings, demanding details on lending businesses that Capital staff worried the regulators didn't understand or respect. 
Immelt gritted his teeth at the name of Caroline Frawley, head of the Fed teams that patrolled the unit that spun out nearly half of GE's profits. 
"That woman," he said at one point, "is not going to tell me how to run this company." He wanted to be free to invest billions into developing a new jet engine without worrying about the government looking over his shoulder. 
As the recovery slouched into the early part of this decade, a handful of top-ranking executives huddled here and there, always discreetly, to discuss their most obvious problem. GE couldn't live without GE Capital, still so big it was essentially the nation's seventh largest bank. But investors couldn't live with GE Capital and its unshakable shadow of risk, either. 
What if the GE Jack Welch built didn't work any more? 
GE might reap billions from selling Capital's businesses, as well as the real estate, mortgages and other assets it owned, but that would create a gigantic tax bill. More importantly, the company would need a plan to replace the earnings Capital brought in each quarter. 
Cracks in the performance of the company's industrial lines -- its power turbines, jet engines, locomotives and MRI machines -- would now be plain to see, some executives worried, without Capital's cash to help cover the weak quarters and pay the sacrosanct dividend. That dividend, doling out billions of dollars to shareholders, is one reason GE was owned by so many, with about 43% of its shares held by individual investors. 
It was hard to see how the puzzle pieces could be made to fit. Immelt and Bornstein, the CEO known as Big Jeff and the CFO as Little Jeff, and a small group of trusted lieutenants, kept meeting. 
Increasingly, Immelt worried about his legacy. He often reminded people that he kept the ship afloat after Sept. 11 and the financial crisis. But he also joked that his ability to ride out in a blaze of glory ended the day Lehman Brothers went bankrupt in September 2008. 
Whittling away at Capital wasn't enough. Immelt, trapped in Welch's long shadow, craved a bold move to shock his company out of the doldrums that had plagued his tenure. It was time for GE to be reinvented again. 
MEAL AND DEAL 
Jeff Immelt was on his way to the Winter Olympics in Russia in February 2014 when the GE jet made a stop in Paris for dinner. He had an invitation from Patrick Kron, his counterpart at the struggling French industrial conglomerate Alstom SA. 
Kron was looking for a savior. Alstom, a maker of trains, rail equipment, power turbines and generators, was veering toward insolvency, signing up business at a loss just to keep money coming in the door. The beleaguered CEO had dined already with the chief executive of GE's archrival, Siemens AG. In Immelt, Kron found a man spoiling for a big deal. 
Just a few months earlier, the word had gone out to the merger teams embedded in each of GE's industrial units: Headquarters wants your biggest targets. 
Alstom was one of the expensive deals Immelt focused on as the two CEOs chatted into the night in Paris. After dinner in France, Immelt stopped in Helsinki to consider another target, Wartsila, a Finnish builder of marine engines, oil-and-gas equipment and power plants. Another potential deal, dubbed Project Lion, came from GE's oil-and-gas unit. Still, not long after the restaurant bill was paid, momentum was building for a bid on Alstom. The only question was how much Immelt would be willing to pay. 
Some GE directors and advisers were wary. Immelt's determination to complete a blockbuster reflected his customary optimism, a trait that had led him to overpay in the past, and one the succession team warned the board about before it picked him as CEO. 
Hardworking and affable, Immelt was 6-foot-4 with a mane of graying hair swept back from the temples. He moved easily through crowds and possessed the practiced eye contact of a politician. He was quick to chuckle and usually had a joke to tell, even if it often was one he'd already told. 
Former colleagues compared him to Bill Clinton because of his magnetic ability to hold the focus of a room. He sounded like a leader. He was a natural salesman. 
Immelt, an Ohio native who played football at Dartmouth, came to GE out of Harvard Business School. He changed jobs often, working in the plastics division before eventually running the health-care unit. Immelt was 44 years old when he won a bruising and public succession contest set up by Welch, beating out two men who would later lead Home Depot, Chrysler, 3M and Boeing. 
Welch advised him to carve his own path, and Immelt's decision was to take a gentler tack. Welch was known to put his arm around an executive who just missed his numbers, tell him he loved him and if it happened again, he was out. Immelt could lean on executives and their underlings just as hard, cajoling and challenging, but he discouraged dissent by applauding optimistic news. 
Welch, the engineer, was likely to quiz a manager about details -- why are the numbers down at your plant -- where Immelt dealt in broader strokes. He embraced his background in sales. A presentation at any GE meeting was called "a pitch" and ideas for new businesses were "imagination breakthroughs." Decisions had to fit with the "story" of the company and where it was going. 
Immelt was so confident in GE's managerial excellence that he projected a sunny vision for the company's future that didn't always match reality. He was aware of the challenges, but he wanted his people to feel like they were playing for a winning team. That often left Immelt, in the words of one GE insider, trying to market himself out of a math problem. 
For the month or so after the dinner with Kron, a team of GE merger specialists set about trying to make the math for the Alstom deal work. 
Executives at GE Power knew Alstom well, having given it an appraising sniff two years earlier. They found a company then too troubled to take a run at: Alstom was in greater need of cash than the market understood, had too many employees and French law made it too difficult to lay off workers and sell assets. 
Alstom's problems hadn't gone away, but now its stock was cheaper, and Immelt saw the makings of a deal that fit perfectly with his vision for reshaping his company. GE would essentially swap Capital, the cash engine that no longer made sense, for a new one that could churn out profits each quarter in the reliable way that industrial companies were supposed to. 
At the time of GE's 2014 shareholder meeting in April, Alstom executives flew to a hotel near the venue in Chicago to talk. To the dismay of some involved, GE's bid crept upward, from the 30 euros a share that the power division's deal team already believed was too high, to roughly 34 euros, or almost $47. Immelt and Kron met one-on-one, and the deal team realized the game was over. The principals had shaken hands. 
Immelt knew Alstom had its problems but hoped to show off the management prowess on which GE prided itself. The French company had a large collection of power plants that GE would run more efficiently and a flabby global workforce that GE would slash. 
News of the deal leaked hours after the shareholder meeting was over. Valued at $17 billion, the acquisition would be GE's largest ever and the first move in the one-two combination that Immelt thought would revive his company and set his legacy. 
THE PIVOT 
Jeff Immelt was all smiles when he took the stage for that August's annual Crotonville leadership summit. 
His first PowerPoint slide was entitled "GE Pivot." Alstom promised "tremendous upside with strong execution," read another projected on the auditorium's big screen. "Unique & historic opportunity at high returns." 
In Immelt's vision, this was a chance to corner the market on lighting the unlit corners of the Earth. He imagined crushing competitors for gas-fired power turbines such as Germany's Siemens and Japan's Mitsubishi, and winning bids to build power plants across the Middle East, Africa and South Asia. In the present, the deal made sense to other GE executives because they believed the company could squeeze more profit from the old, coal-fueled power plants Alstom operated in Europe and Asia. 
The visions for the present and the future were both fundamentally flawed. 
As GE's research department was preparing white papers heralding "The Age of Gas," the world was entering a multiyear decline in the demand for new gas power plants and for the electricity that made them profitable. 
Opposition from the French government -- blindsided when news of the deal leaked in April -- slowed completing it to a crawl. GE's negotiating team continued to agree to more costly concessions demanded by regulators on both sides of the Atlantic as 2014 bled into 2015. 
Under pressure from the U.S. Justice Department, GE agreed it would get rid of an Alstom unit that serviced turbines made by competitors. 
Bowing to the Europeans, GE agreed to dump Alstom's still-developing program to build a state-of-the-art gas turbine equivalent to GE's flagship model. That technology was 
transferred to Italy's Ansaldo, potentially opening the door to more serious competition since the company is 40% owned by the Chinese. And European and Alstom officials 
stymied GE's attempts to review the company's order book: a black box of immeasurable risk since the French company had been lowballing bids just to keep sales coming in. 

By mid-2015, the concessions threatened GE's logic for the acquisition. The company hired litigators at one point, ready to fight regulators, or even to help extricate GE from 

the deal, if Immelt and his top executives decided it no longer made sense. 
A band of skeptics inside GE Power were hopeful the deal would collapse. When advisers determined that the concessions to get the deal approved might have grown costly 
enough to trigger a provision allowing GE to back out, some in the Power business quietly celebrated, confiding in one another that they assumed management would abandon 
the deal. 

But Immelt and his circle of closest advisers wanted it done. That included Steve Bolze, the man who ran it and hoped someday to run all of General Electric. 
THE EXIT 
In the early spring of 2015, GE Capital's chief, Keith Sherin, strode into a colleague's office in the division's Norwalk headquarters to share the company's most tightly held 

secret. 
"We're going to de-SIFI," the boss said. 
That mystifying bit of regulatory jargon could only mean one thing: They were selling GE Capital. Immelt's reinvention of GE was moving into its next phase. 
In the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis, Capital was deemed such a big player in the banking system that it was designated a "Systemically Important Financial Institution" 

and forced to accept the more intrusive regulation that Immelt so despised. In the years since, GE Capital had been shrinking slowly, but not fast enough for investors. 
To get out from under the Fed's thumb, GE would sell $216 billion worth of financial assets -- real estate, railcars, mortgage holdings and lending operations that served midsize 

firms and provided venture capital. Added to what it had already spun off, $310 billion worth of Capital's business would be chopped up and spread across the American financial 
system. That would leave a $100 billion stub that included the plane-leasing unit and some industrial leasing operations meant to boost GE's power and oil-and-gas businesses. 
Once complete, less than 10% of GE's total earnings would come from the finance engine that Jack Welch had built. 
It struck some within Capital as an overcorrection to both the markets and skeptical regulators at the Fed. Some worried how the company would manage once most of GE 

Capital was gone. 
"What are we going to do about the cash?" the second Capital executive asked after Sherin broke the news. 
"We'll work it out," Sherin said, thinking ahead to the thousands of hours and hundreds of people it would take to pull off. Immelt had picked Sherin, who had been the finance 

chief of the entire company, to run Capital after the financial crisis. 
Their idea was to use the proceeds from selling most of Capital to buy back GE shares, offsetting the loss of Capital's earnings. 
The company made the plan public on April 10, almost one year after the Alstom deal leaked to the press, and decided to act fast to sell most of the business. Despite a few 

private misgivings in Norwalk, the plan was widely supported by other GE employees, the board and, more importantly, investors. 

Billionaire Nelson Peltz, who runs Trian Fund Management, an activist investment firm feared by executives of struggling companies, called to congratulate Immelt on the pivot 
right after the announcement. 
In response, the GE boss told Peltz: "We'd love to have you in the stock." 
CRACKS IN POWER 
Things were beginning to come together for Jeff Immelt as 2015 wore on. That summer he sat behind a desk in the auditorium in Crotonville watching Steve Bolze cue up 

PowerPoint slides as part of the Growth Playbook, a grueling annual examination of GE's eight business leaders. 
At the event, GE would hammer out targets for sales and profit, setting the underlying assumptions for the financial estimates it would give investors. 
It had been a few months since the plan to sell off GE Capital had been announced, and Bolze, the head of GE Power, was inching toward completion of the Alstom deal. 
Already the chief of GE's largest business by sales, Bolze, 52 years old and square-jawed, was in the race to succeed Immelt, and he was about to add a huge new global 

portfolio of power plants and thousands of workers to his fiefdom. 
Moving through the slides, Bolze came to the proposed annual sales growth rate of the power business: 5%. 
There was ample reason for skepticism. Power had been struggling to meet targets, and its sales hadn't grown that quickly in years. Global investment in new gas-fired power 

plants was slowing. Energy efficiency was on the rise. That meant future revenue from the highly profitable service contracts GE had signed was likely to fall, or at least to grow 
less quickly. Global gross domestic product, a reliable proxy for the power market, was below 4%. 
It was a rosy assumption that cried out for interrogation, the very point of the formal review. As the room watched, Immelt gave the desk in front of him a confident slap. 

"Great, next page," he said. 
Immelt could be tough on executives in his own way in these briefings, but it wasn't usually for being too optimistic. "Where's the guy I used to know?" he would ask an 
underling who told him Immelt's targets couldn't be hit. When the mood soured, the tone changed. "Your people," Immelt would say, "don't want it bad enough." 

So, they stretched. This was particularly true in Power after the Alstom deal closed in November 2015. Immelt pushed for market share at all costs, which led to less than 

lucrative deals. They also used financing from the stub of GE Capital to help prop up customer demand. 
Already facing a slowdown in equipment sales and competition from renewable energy, managers in Power struggled to mesh their operations with Alstom's, the largest effort of 
its kind in GE history. 

Throughout 2016, teams inside Power combed through the portfolio of service contracts, each representing payments from power generators to maintain the turbines GE had sold them. By design, those contracts were malleable. A technological innovation that improved the performance of a turbine blade or lengthened the number of hours between maintenance outages had to be accounted for. 
The GE teams started offering discounted turbine upgrades to customers in exchange for extending the length of contracts to as far out as 2050. Executives scoured existing 

contracts for ways to change underlying assumptions, such as the frequency of overhauls, to boost their profitability. 
GE Power even sold its receivables -- the bills its customers owed over time -- to GE Capital to generate short-term cash flow. The unit gave customers discounts on their 
service contracts, lowering their overall value, in exchange for renegotiations that let the company bill the customers sooner. 

The accounting maneuvers were legal, if aggressive, GE executives assured one another. But it also meant that the profits were mostly on paper. Rarely was a new dollar of profit flowing in the door. 
Bolze's team was operating in a tradition that stretched at least as far back as the glory days of Jack Welch, but the scale of the aggressive contract accounting was far bigger. 
Worry was starting to grow inside Power by the end of 2016. Management's expectations about the sales growth and profit they should be able to hit didn't reflect the dim 
reality of the market, team members told Bolze and Paul McElhinney, the head of the unit that administered the service contracts. 

The complaints were common among lower-level executives, but when raised to leaders like McElhinney, they were stopped cold. 

"Steve's our guy," McElhinney said in one meeting. If Bolze was elevated to CEO, those behind him in Power would rise too. "Get on board," he said. "We have to make the 
numbers." 
ENTER TRIAN 
The seed Jeff Immelt sowed with his invitation to Nelson Peltz bore fruit in the fall of 2015. Trian Fund Management disclosed it had been secretly buying up GE shares, 

amassing a stake worth $2.5 billion that made it one of GE's 10 largest shareholders. 
Some outsiders saw Immelt inviting in a disruptive investor like Peltz as a sign of confidence, but it was also a defensive strategy. Other activists were circling GE. 
Activist investors are usually bad news for managers. The pools of shares they control provide a fulcrum for prying loose board seats, management changes and the sale of 

businesses. 

Trian wasn't calling for a breakup or CEO change, though, as it had at lumbering companies including DuPont and Kraft. It wasn't even seeking a seat on GE's board, whose 18 
high-powered members were loyal to Immelt, as it had at Family Dollar, Ingersoll-Rand, Mondelez International and PepsiCo. 
Rather, the influential hedge fund was coming forward with what amounted to a high-profile endorsement of Immelt's strategy. 
Trian's co-founders, Peltz and his son-in-law Ed Garden, took care to say this was a partnership with GE and its brass. The duo traveled to GE's Fairfield headquarters on a 

Sunday afternoon to explain their thinking. They sat alongside Immelt and Jeff Bornstein, the GE chief financial officer, under oils and watercolors, many of them the spoils of Jack Welch's ill-starred purchase of the brokerage Kidder-Peabody. 
"It's not something you want to break up," Peltz said inside the wood-paneled boardroom. "It's something you want to keep taking care of." 
Trian didn't like to be called an activist investor, even though it helped revolutionize that corner of the investing world, preferring to be called an engaged shareholder. While it 
built a reputation as a conglomerate killer, it had found a conglomerate it liked in GE. 

An 80-page white paper that Trian released with its investment was titled "Transformation Underway . . . But Nobody Cares." It argued GE's stock, then around $25, could reach 

$40 to $45 by the end of 2017. It praised the Alstom deal and pushed GE to borrow more so it could repurchase another $20 billion in stock. 
Running the GE relationship fell to Garden, a 57-year-old, hard-charging financier who knew both Immelt and Bornstein. In fact, Garden's brother had been a college buddy of 
Immelt. 

Garden, a lean man fond of clear-rim eyeglasses, was the calmer side of the partnership with Peltz. He had little problem speaking his mind, though, making clear Trian helped 

fix companies -- and also break them up. 
It didn't take more than a few months for the good feelings to sour. Trian said at the outset it would be watching GE's performance. A year after the initial investment, GE was 
behind on financial targets and the stock wasn't moving. 

In the fall of 2016, an increasingly impatient Garden went to see Bornstein at his six-level, $13 million townhouse in Boston's Back Bay. Garden said if the performance didn't improve, Trian might ask for a seat on the board. The threat of a public battle, which GE wanted to avoid, gave Trian the leverage it needed. 
The two men started to work out a compromise. GE doubled its cost-cutting goals and tied more of its executive bonuses to profits at its core industrial units. 
Some parts of the agreement weren't public. If GE didn't get back on track, Trian would push a board seat or management changes. Both men understood that could include 
Bornstein himself, a man many within the company thought had the best chance to succeed Immelt. 

TROUBLE IN SARASOTA 

Jeff Immelt wasn't backing down on GE's strategy or direction. The company was a market leader, it validated trends and set the tone for other companies. It didn't run away 
from problems. 
After President Trump's election and threat to pull the U.S. out of multinational trade deals, Immelt used his annual letter to shareholders in February 2017 to remind them that 

GE was bigger than any one country. 
"We don't need trade deals, because we have a superior global footprint," he wrote. "We see many giving up on globalization; that means more for us." 
During a time when many companies were trying to avoid attention from the new president, Immelt didn't shy away when Trump's deregulation agenda conflicted with GE's 

stance on climate change. 
"No matter how it unfolds, it doesn't change what GE believes," he wrote in a note to employees in March 2017. 
GE was still on the muscle, hunting for big deals. A team in the aviation division had worked with bankers to put together a proposal to buy aerospace rival Rockwell Collins in 

late 2016. The deal pitch, worth more than $15 billion, reached Immelt in early 2017. He scuttled it. Instead, GE kept repurchasing stock, spending more than $3 billion in first 
four months of 2017. 
GE Power, the unit that led all others in sales, was the centerpiece of Immelt's new GE. But there were only so many service contracts to be renegotiated. 

The company revealed the weakness hidden inside the unit that April with a single, startling figure: GE's industrial businesses were sending $1.6 billion more out the door in the first quarter than was coming in, about $1 billion worse than it had projected. The result raised red flags about aggressive accounting and whether the company could make its goals. 
Most of the shortfall came from its service contracts, which should have been the source of the easiest profits. Instead, the heart of the industrial business was hollow. And its 
failure was about to tip the entire company into crisis. 
Immelt only had a month before the Electric Products Group conference, a sort of national convention for the industrial fraternity. As the head of the biggest U.S. conglomerate, 
the GE chief was traditionally the star attraction, holding court and giving the keynote presentation to close the three-day meeting. 

GE's shares were down 11% so far that year, missing out on a broad market rally that had seen the S&P 500 climb more than 6%. Investors openly wondered if Immelt would stick by his 2018 profit target of $2 a share. Senior executives were perplexed about the long-held target, and Jeff Bornstein, the CFO who had given his word to Trian at risk of his job, advised against sticking to it. 
Immelt was an accomplished presenter, his ability to navigate a deck of PowerPoint slides honed over the decades. This year was different. The confident, affable salesman 
ready with a smile and a joke wasn't himself as he faced a skeptical audience inside the ballroom of the Longboat Key Resort in Sarasota, Fla. 
He was shaky, racing through the highlights of his slides. On the last one, he defended the company's 2018 profit goal. Sort of. If the oil and gas markets didn't improve, he 
said, the $2 target for 2018 would be a reach, and the company would have to cut even more costs. 

Immelt, with his eye on the future, believed the next CEO would eventually have to reset the goal, and Immelt thought cutting the target twice would be bad for investors and 
the company. 
The crowd buzzed with confusion. Barclays analyst Scott Davis asked bluntly if Immelt was backing the target. 

"It's going to be in the range, Scott," Immelt said. "If we wanted to take it off the page, we would have taken it off the page. We didn't want to." 
The questions didn't get better. Is the Alstom deal not working? Can the power division improve its cash flow? Would the company consider spinning off the health-care division 
that Immelt had once run? 

Immelt, as he had before, argued that investors had GE all wrong, mispricing a stock that should have been above $30 a share. The aviation business was booming, outpacing competitors with its newest model. The once-troubled health unit was on the upswing. The oil-and-gas business, which had suffered through sliding crude prices, was riding a rebound. 
"It's not crap. It's pretty good, really," Immelt said of his company's financial performance. 
When the grilling was over, Immelt wasted no time getting out of Sarasota. In less than an hour he was aboard a GE jet. Immelt, his credibility wounded with Wall Street, 
limped through the rest of the week as frustrated investors called seeking clarity on the state of the company. 
Trian, which had recently projected that GE could actually exceed the 2018 goal Immelt had waffled on, made it clear it was going to push for a seat on the board. 
All of a sudden, a question that Immelt had batted away with little more than a joke during the questioning in Florida seemed significant. 
"Hate to put you on the spot," said Steve Tusa, an analyst from JP Morgan Chase & Co. who had been telling investors to sell GE shares, "but I'd like to get any update on 

succession planning, potential time. I know you just can't bear the thought of not coming down to Sarasota." 
AFTER IMMELT 
Only a dozen men had led General Electric to this point in its history. Many spent a decade in the role. Jack Welch spent two. 
Jeff Immelt was in his 16th year. He had tried everything to revive the stock, but in the days after his struggles in Sarasota, he realized he had lost the confidence of investors, 

especially Trian. Without that, the optimist saw little chance he could lead a turnaround. 
Immelt decided it was time for a change, and he wanted to do it without being pushed. 
GE didn't take replacing its CEO lightly. When Immelt competed for the top job, candidates were moved around, performance was measured, the list was narrowed and those 

passed over often left. Corporate governance experts praised it at the time as the very model of a modern chief-executive succession. 
The process left Immelt with a sour taste. For years he was clear he wanted his own successor picked in a less public contest, and was true to his word. 
The board years earlier had quietly set a target of late 2017 for a new CEO to take over and identified four GE men as possible successors: Bornstein, the finance chief; Bolze, 

the head of the power division; John Flannery, the leader of the health-care unit; and Lorenzo Simonelli, boss of the oil-and-gas business. 

In May 2017, around the same time of Immelt's disastrous performance at the conference, the board called the candidates to New York to audition. But by that time, the secret 
race had already been won. Flannery was the unofficial heir apparent. 
Simonelli, seen at 45 as too young for the main job, was ticketed to run the public company that resulted from the merger of GE's oil-and-gas unit and oil-field service company 

Baker Hughes. 

Bolze, whose team at Power had stretched so far in hopes of riding his coattails, was out. Not only was his unit the sclerotic heart of GE's struggles, but Bolze, who had 
occasionally clashed with Immelt, was seen early in the process as a poor fit as CEO. 
Bornstein hadn't run a GE business unit before, and Immelt and the board felt he could be a better partner to a successful candidate, if he would agree to stay on. 
The process was shrouded in secrecy up until the end. After Immelt informed the board of his intention to step down, a small staff worked out of human-resources chief Susan 

Peters' apartment to write the press release and other materials for the announcements. 

A 30-year GE veteran, Flannery had yet to be told he had won the job. On Friday, June 9, less than three weeks after the Sarasota conference, Flannery got a call. Immelt was 
out. He was in. 
Bald and bespectacled, Flannery was nothing like Immelt. He was soft-spoken and analytical. More accountant than salesman, he lacked Immelt's booming presence and 

charisma. 

Flannery was Trian's ideal successor, a balm for its frustrations with Immelt. He had an investor's mind-set, crunched numbers naturally and was obsessed with the cash businesses produced. 
Flannery, whose father was president of a small Connecticut bank, spent most of his years at GE Capital after getting his M.B.A. from Wharton. He worked in risk management, private equity and eventually rose to be the head of mergers and acquisitions. He had spent years imagining a more streamlined GE and was bewildered by its inability to meet cost-cutting targets. 
For some, that made him dry. For others, including the GE board, he was just what GE needed. He knew of Immelt's flaws and wanted to change the culture to encourage debate and focus. Some of Immelt's signature endeavors and buzzwords evaporated when Flannery ascended. 
It was tempting to cast him as the anti-Jeff, but he was instrumental in the Alstom deal, arguing it would be a valuable asset. 
Flannery was also a GE die-hard, just as his predecessor and his rivals for the job. Flannery told associates after taking over that he kept a "f--- you list" bearing the names of those who had done GE wrong, especially those who left the company. 
A SHORT HONEYMOON 
John Flannery didn't waste any time. Even before he was supposed to officially start as CEO in August, he launched a review of each business unit, scuttled a futuristic building planned for the new Boston headquarters, and grounded the fleet of corporate jets that Immelt had used so extravagantly that he had a spare plane follow him around the world. Each Friday, even if Flannery was on business overseas, he answered employee questions in a recorded video, helping to boost spirits. 
He also made a pilgrimage to Nantucket to see Jack Welch, then 81, who has a house there. Some expected Flannery to be more like Welch and less like Immelt; in the aviation division some workers were walking around chanting "Jack is back." The enthusiasm was double-edged, an endorsement of Flannery and a rebuke of Immelt. 
The honeymoon didn't last long. Flannery was expected to make things better, but he revealed in his first conference call in July that he wouldn't lay out his strategy until November. Investors used to Immelt's optimism were left mired in uncertainty. GE's stock dropped nearly 3%, to $25.91 a share. 
Flannery soon learned that things were worse inside GE Power than he had known. The service contracts tweaked when Steve Bolze was in the running for CEO made earnings look better on paper, but delayed money coming in. Factories were holding a glut of expensive inventory because the division had prepared for growth into a market that was collapsing, tying up more cash. 
The mess in Power led to the abrupt departures of key GE veterans, a move some inside the company worried would leave the rookie CEO short of experienced hands to help revive GE's fortunes. 
Bolze had left soon after losing the CEO competition. The secrecy of the succession race meant there wasn't another leader ready to step in at Power. It was still integrating the company's largest-ever acquisition and about to enter one of the biggest-ever slumps in the power-generation market. 
Immelt, who had stayed on as chairman, didn't stick around for the new CEO to dismantle what he had built. He left the company where he had spent most of his life in October, months earlier than expected. A few days later, Flannery nudged out Immelt's top lieutenants, marketing chief Beth Comstock and international business head John Rice. 
As the board was gathering in October for a monthly meeting, Flannery stepped into the room to make an announcement: Bornstein, the company's hard-nosed CFO, was resigning. Bornstein himself later came in to explain his decision. They were likely to have to offer Trian a seat on the board. Leaving now might spare directors some conflict between Trian and management. Bornstein would depart along with Comstock and Rice. 
It blindsided several directors, leaving them disappointed the board hadn't been consulted. They felt they could have persuaded Bornstein to stay on. The CFO's resignation caused more worry from investors. GE announced Bornstein's departure after the market closed on a humdrum Friday. 
The next big news wasn't long in coming, and this time it involved addition instead of subtraction. That Monday, GE named Trian's Ed Garden to its board, a move months in the making after the company failed to hit the targets Bornstein had agreed to in his Back Bay townhouse. Investors drove down GE stock almost 4% to $23.43 by the time the market closed. 
Flannery and the board, wanting to avoid a proxy fight, added Garden without opposition. Some directors welcomed the new voice, even if Garden could prove abrasive at times, while others on the board were blunt in declaring their distaste for him. 
Garden was fond of reminding them all that Trian had lost hundreds of millions of dollars on their watch. Now, he had a direct say in decisions and access to all of GE's financial secrets. 
THE ANTI-JEFF 
If Jeff Immelt was known for his vaulting optimism, John Flannery quickly became known for his boundless brooding. 
Few decisions, even major ones, were final as he devised the strategy he promised to unveil in November. Flannery relentlessly sought input from outsiders, searching for flaws in his reasoning. The feedback meant a decision, like selling off a division, could be reassessed at any time. 
He repeatedly conferred with the board and encouraged debate. Under Flannery, the board or its committees had dozens of meetings and conference calls. In just one year, they got together in one way or another 50 times. 
Flannery felt more analysis and scrutiny was exactly what GE needed. Too often, the company under Immelt had made major decisions about how to spend its cash without enough rigor. And because of GE's decentralized structure, Flannery felt he needed time to better understand the disparate units despite his three decades working at GE. 
The whole process, invigorating at first after Immelt's dislike of dissent, quickly became grating to the top executives. 
By the time the third-quarter results came in October, the stock was below $25 and losing ground. GE warned that full-year cash flow from its industrial businesses would now be $7 billion, a shadow of the earlier guidance of $12 billion. The loss was almost entirely from the troubled Power division. 
With the November date for releasing his strategy to investors rushing toward him, Flannery was forced to stop agonizing, even though his plan remained a work in progress. 
Hours before several hundred investors, analysts and reporters packed into a large wood-paneled meeting room in Midtown Manhattan on Nov. 13, GE disclosed it would cut its dividend in half. 
Some of Flannery's explanation was familiar -- he blamed the previous management of GE Power -- and some of it was new and unnerving. "We've been paying a dividend in excess of our free cash flow for a number of years now," he said. 
In the dry language of accounting in which he was so fluent, Flannery was declaring a pillar of Immelt's pivot had failed: GE had been sending money out the door to repurchase its stock and pay dividends but wasn't bringing in enough from its regular operations to cover them. It wasn't sustainable. Buybacks and dividends are generally paid out of leftover funds. 
Flannery warned it would take years to fix some of the company's businesses and laid out a future for three core markets -- power, aviation and health care -- while planning to jettison smaller divisions, such as transportation and lighting. 
Despite the wait, there was no radical restructuring, and just as it had after Flannery spoke in June and in October, the stock fell. Shares drifted below $20. 
Deep inside the disappointing three-hour presentation was a little-noticed warning from Jamie Miller, Jeff Bornstein's replacement as chief financial officer: The ghost of an 
insurance business that investors thought the company had rid itself of years before would prevent GE Capital from sending the $3 billion it had promised to headquarters. 

In 2004, GE spun off most of its insurance holdings into Genworth Financial, and the remainder was largely sold to Swiss Reinsurance Co. two years later. 

Top executives celebrated the move often in public statements. Immelt said that GE might not have survived the financial crisis if it hadn't shed the insurance operations, an 
example he and his supporters used to demonstrate his astute deal timing. 
But when GE spun off Genworth, there was a chunk of the business, long-term-care insurance, that lingered. Policies designed to cover expenses like nursing homes and 

assisted living had proved to be a disaster for insurers who had drastically underestimated the costs. 

The bankers didn't think the long-term-care business could be part of the Genworth spinoff. To make the deal more attractive, GE agreed to cover any losses. This insurance for 
insurers covered about 300,000 policies by early 2018, about 4% of all such policies written in the country. Incoming premiums weren't covering payouts. 
Two months after Miller flagged the $3 billion, it was clear the problem was a great deal larger. GE was preparing for it to be more than $6 billion and needed to come up with 

$15 billion in reserves regulators required it to have to cover possible costs in the future. The figure was gigantic. By comparison, even after the recent cut, GE's annual 

dividend cost $4 billion. 
The company won a waiver from regulators to allow it to build up the reserve over seven years rather than all at once. The numbers were dire enough, though, that GE held a 
special call for investors in January 2018, only days before it was scheduled to release earnings. 

During the call, Flannery, who had promised in November that his review had left no stone unturned, said that he would spend some time -- again -- looking at options for all of the business units. He carefully avoided using the words "break up," but that's how it was interpreted: The GE lifer was considering dissolving the conglomerate. Investors he hoped to placate were unimpressed. GE shares fell almost 3% to $18.21. 
THE BEST PEOPLE The General Electric board of directors had long been one of the world's most prestigious corporate appointments. When Flannery took over as chairman from Immelt, the members included a dozen current or former CEOs, the dean of New York University's business school and a former 
chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
The 17 independent directors got a mix of cash, stock and other perks worth more than $300,000 a year, and they also could receive up to $30,000 worth of GE products in any three-year period. The company also matched directors' gifts to charity. Upon leaving the board, a director could direct $1 million in GE money to a charity. For 36 years under Immelt and Welch, the board had largely followed the chairman's lead. One newcomer under Welch was so surprised by the lack of debate that the director 
asked a more senior colleague, "What is the role of a GE board member?" 
"Applause," the older director answered. 
Immelt, like many CEOs who are also their company's chairmen, made sure his board was aligned with him. In 2016, he pushed out Sandy Warner, a 24-year GE director and 

the former CEO of JP Morgan, after the two had clashed over Immelt's succession. 

Warner thought it should be sped up, and that Steve Bolze, head of GE Power, was likely the man for the job. Immelt, dissatisfied with how Bolze was running Power, felt he had 
to force Warner off the board to torpedo Bolze. 
Warner appealed to fellow directors in a closed session. Would they at least allow a debate on whether it was time to replace the CEO? The board stuck with Jeff Immelt, and 

Sandy Warner walked away for good. GE told investors in a securities filing he left because of new term limits and didn't disclose the dispute. 

The Federal Reserve, when it was supervising the company, had urged the board to push back more on Immelt. The CEO often made it a point to go around the board table to 
ensure everyone had a chance to comment on a strategic decision. Directors rarely challenged him. To Immelt, it was proof he solicited input and encouraged debate. 
Flannery had committed to revamping and shrinking the board after investors criticized its oversight of Immelt. 
Board meetings at GE were an elaborate production. With 18 directors and another dozen regular attendees, the room was packed, and the agenda was, too. The plan being 

implemented in the first part of 2018 called for the board's size to be cut to 12. Half of the current directors would leave and three new ones would be added. 

Just like previous CEOs, Flannery wanted to make the board his own, but he wanted more than a rubber stamp for his decisions. He wanted an active debate. It was one of the 
reasons he welcomed the inclusion of Trian's Ed Garden. 
He also sought out Larry Culp, the former CEO of smaller conglomerate Danaher Corp. In the 14 years Culp ran the company known for its dental implants and medical devices, 

he had earned a reputation for tough deal-making and careful spending. 

Danaher shares surged during his tenure, and he had retired at 52 years old after making more than $300 million. The company sometimes came up at GE board meetings as 
an example of a more functional conglomerate. 
Before Culp joined the board in April, an adviser warned Flannery that Culp would be the man to replace him atop GE if things soured. Flannery said he didn't care; he needed 

the best people to help him right the listing ship. 
BACK TO SARASOTA 

Before he was named the boss, John Flannery had enjoyed a reputation inside of GE for being a calm, confident leader who had revived GE's health-care business. 
Folks liked to point to how he handled a presentation to 700 company bigwigs at GE's annual global management retreat in Boca Raton, Fla., in January 2015. It was a big deal 
to be chosen to talk at the company's ultimate networking event, and the presentations took weeks to prepare. 

Flannery showed up for his without PowerPoint slides and wowed the audience with his quiet confidence and command. 
Three years later, it was clear that being CEO of GE wasn't the same as presenting at Boca, especially when everyone was looking to you to save the company. Flannery was 
building a new reputation. He lacked self-confidence and sometimes flew off the handle. He could get flustered in high-pressure situations, and GE's stock price dropped anytime 
he opened his mouth. 

The Electric Products Group conference was fast approaching in May in Sarasota, the setting for Immelt's last stand a year earlier. 

Flannery's handlers were prepping him to avoid another setback. They had a long sheet of possible questions and appropriate answers. They did mock sessions and asked him 
the same questions in many different ways, so he could always steer to the best response. 
Once on stage, the preparation couldn't hide Flannery's all-too-familiar message. The power business faced years of struggle and major changes at the conglomerate would take 

time to show results. 

When pressed, Flannery declined to commit to GE's dividend for 2019. He gave the answer as a finance expert. The dividend will reflect the ability of the existing portfolio to pay 
it, so it may change with the portfolio. If a company sold half its businesses, it couldn't pay the same dividend. 
The transparency was unusual. The CEO playbook called for him to stand by his commitment to the dividend, until he didn't. Flannery also defended his methodical approach to 

his latest review of the company's businesses. 

"So being deliberate and then moving when things make sense as opposed to moving just because somebody wants us to is just not my style," he told the crowd. "So, I get that 
people want faster. I'm managing in a broader sense." 
Flannery had spoken, and the stock had fallen 7%. 
THE BREAKUP 
It was a measure of the challenges facing John Flannery that when GE was dumped from the Dow Jones Industrial Average in June, he had bigger things on his mind. 
An original member of the index, GE had been continuously part of the Dow since 1907. It was replaced by Walgreens Boots Alliance Inc., a drugstore chain with a market 

capitalization half as big as GE's. 

It was a blow to GE's battered rank-and-file. Being dropped from the most widely cited stock index meant they no longer worked at one of America's 30 most prestigious 
companies. 
Flannery was too busy to lament a move he saw as inevitable. In a week, he was going to unveil a plan to break up the company spawned by Edison and Morgan, and made and 

remade by Welch, Immelt and 10 other men before him. The moment weighed on the GE veteran with the enemies' list in his head. 

The preparations were intense. Investment bankers, crisis PR consultants and other advisers were brought in to finish the plan and help Flannery construct a message he would 
deliver in a surprise announcement June 26. 
He presented a plan that many expected back in November. GE would spin off its health-care division, sell its stake in oil-field supply company Baker Hughes, cut its debt and 

streamline its sprawling corporate structure. The stub of GE Capital was all that remained unresolved. 

Almost as an afterthought, it was announced that Larry Culp had been elevated to lead director, replacing Jack Brennan, the former CEO of giant mutual-fund company 
Vanguard Group. 
Culp had the kind of successful industrial pedigree that investors, including Trian, wanted steering the board. Some directors thought GE should abandon its tradition of having 

the CEO also serve as chairman. Having a strong lead director was a good compromise. 

Culp grabbed the reins in the summer board meetings, drilling the new CEO on questions about the power business, scolding Flannery in front of directors for not knowing such 
nitty-gritty details as inventory levels. Given the sprawl of GE, few expected Flannery to have them at the ready. 
In his previous life at the much smaller Danaher, Culp was known for immersing himself in its various companies. Rather than bringing executives to headquarters for reviews, 

he would travel to their offices and walk the factory floors. 

For some on the board, the dressing down revealed a bigger problem. Flannery lacked the experience to juggle the steady flow of crises while also running the company that he 
was still learning about. Flannery felt he was bringing scrutiny to major issues, like how to best spend GE's money, that were previously glossed over. 
But there was also a group on the board who already wanted to consider pushing Flannery out. They were worried he wasn't up to the job, and GE had no room for error. Even a 

normally manageable problem could mean disaster. 
It came from the blades in GE Power's newest line of heavy-duty gas turbines. They were failing. Exelon, a big utility, was forced to shut two power plants in Texas for repairs. 

GE would need to fix dozens of other turbines it had sold. That promised to damp already weak sales and drive up maintenance costs in the struggling unit. GE was counting on 
that turbine to battle rivals such as Siemens. 
There was more. GE was on pace to miss its cash-flow targets and would have to take a charge of more than $20 billion to write off the value of previous acquisitions, including 

Alstom. Flannery briefed directors in a conference call on Wednesday, Sept. 26. 
By the end of the weekend, Flannery was out, fired after 14 months, the shortest stay at the top in GE's long history. The new boss was Larry Culp. 
Culp hadn't been looking for the job when he joined the board, and didn't accept it lightly. He had retired three years before and was spending much of his time working with his 

alma mater, Maryland's Washington College, sitting on corporate boards and working as a senior adviser to Bain Capital, the private-equity firm. 

He saw opportunity, though, and thought he would be a good fit. After all, he had 14 years of experience as a CEO and was only 55. Unlike Flannery, he acted decisively, 
slashing the GE dividend again within his first weeks on the job, leaving investors to collect a token 1 cent per share each quarter. 
Like Flannery, he still planned to dismantle the company, now beset by investigations, lawsuits and waning confidence that it could pay its debts. 

Federal criminal and civil investigators were looking into the ways GE Power had modified service contracts to wring out more short-term profits. They were probing how GE Capital disclosed its continuing liability for long-term-care insurance, as well as write-off Alstom and other deals. 
Shareholders accused the company of defrauding them, citing the power contracts and insurance liability in their lawsuits. GE has denied the allegations. And GE, once the owner of credit almost as good as the U.S. government, saw rating agencies drop the grades on its once-golden bonds. 
Like Flannery, when Culp spoke the stock sank. In a fidgety TV interview in November, he said the power business had yet to hit bottom. He declined to set new financial targets. GE's stock soon fell below $7 for the first time since the financial crisis. 
The collapse has been so complete that there is little left to lose. JP Morgan analyst Steve Tusa, who led the pack in arguing that GE was harboring serious problems, removed his sell rating on the stock this week. GE's biggest skeptic still thinks the businesses are broken but the risks are now known. The stock climbed back above $7 on Thursday, but is down more than 50% for the year and nearly 90% from its 2000 zenith. 
As far and as hard as the fall looked to those on the outside, it felt even farther and harder to those who had been on the inside, the true-believers like Jack Welch and Jeff Immelt and John Flannery, GE men through and through. Today as they try to reconcile how a company valued at nearly $600 billion 18 years ago is now worth a tenth of that, they can't help but feel the deep sting of the slights of history. 
Since being forced out, Flannery has kept his distance from GE. The 56-year-old set out on a six-week road trip with his wife, a journey he long dreamed of taking but couldn't fit into his three decades of climbing to the top of General Electric. He was crisscrossing the American landscape that not long ago he was cruising above in business jets. 
Flannery is unrepentant about refusing to be rushed into plotting a better course for the company he loved. He had unearthed serious problems, every decision was heavy, affecting thousands of factory jobs or a lonely retiree waiting for a dividend check. In exile, he remains certain that there was no quick fix no matter how much investors and the board wanted one. 
Immelt, now 62, divides his time between Silicon Valley, where he joined a venture-capital firm and sits on the boards of four of its startups, and Watertown, Mass., where he serves as chairman of Athenahealth Inc., a medical-software company. In a sun-filled office in the rehabilitated brick factories of an old arsenal complex, Immelt is doing what he told colleagues he wanted to do after leaving GE: work with young, growing tech companies. 
But the anguished way he left the company to which he'd devoted his life remains fresh. He feels misunderstood and unfairly portrayed. He has quipped to some in Silicon Valley that he takes solace in the fact that no one there watches CNBC or reads The Wall Street Journal. 
Immelt sees his tenure as Sisyphean, a battle against gravity as he tried to break the company free of its dependence on Capital only to reveal unseen weakness in the power business that was supposed to be GE's strength. 
"The notion of plugging financial services and industrial companies together, maybe it was a good idea at a point in time, but it is a uniquely bad idea now," Immelt said this week. 
Welch, now 83, has slowed from his relentless peak, but was a ubiquitous presence on Nantucket this summer, never hiding his disdain for the man he chose to succeed him. He fumed about operational failures in the power business, and the execution of the pivot. Welch readily greeted old acquaintances with a grimace about the latest news of the company, saying he gave himself an A for the operation of his old shop, and an F for his choice of successor. 
"I'm terribly disappointed. I expected so much more," he said this week. "I made the best choice I thought I could make, and it didn't turn out right." 
The old chairman isn't sure the powerhouse of his time can be revived, but he hopes that Larry Culp can "build a new GE." 
To Flannery, Immelt, Welch and the others schooled in Crotonville, Larry Culp's ascension punctured a deep and abiding conviction: General Electric made the greatest managers in the world, who could run anything better than anyone else. When the company they loved needed them most, though, the heirs to Edison's ingenuity had run out of ideas. 
In the cruelest of codas, the last CEO of America's last great industrial conglomerate would be an outsider. 
Note on Sourcing 
This article is based on scores of interviews with dozens of people directly involved in these events. They include board members, senior executives and employees at GE headquarters and in its various business units, as well as bankers and advisers employed by the company, investors in its stock, customers for its products and corporate analysts who evaluated its performance. 
The reporting also reflects internal GE communications and documents, including emails, slide presentations and videos. Publicly available securities filings, court records, transcripts of meetings and previous Journal articles were also used. The Journal contacted the individuals in this article and offered them the opportunity to comment. 
Credit: By Thomas Gryta and Ted Mann 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject  Investments; Factories; Managers; Leadership; Executives; Jet engines  
Location  United States--US  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  General Electric Co 332510, 334290, 334512, 334519;  

Name: Department of Justice NAICS: 922130 
Title  EXCHANGE --- GE: Burned Out --- It was once America's most valuable company, the maker of  
power turbines, jet engines, TV shows and MRI machines. Fueled by a relentless optimism, it  
made and remade itself countless times. This is the story of how General Electric lost power.  
Author  Gryta, Thomas; Mann, Ted  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.1  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Dec 15, 2018  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2157174790  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2157174790?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2019-08-26  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 5 of 376 


Streetwise: Investing in Rescuing The Planet Has Pitfalls 
Mackintosh, James.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]14 Dec 2018: B.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Streetwise%3A+Investing+in+Rescuing+The+Planet+Has+Pitfalls&ti 12-14&volume=&issue=&spage=B.1&au=Mackintosh%2C+James&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
It has become accepted wisdom among many of the world's largest institutional investors that climate change will do obvious damage to the long-run returns on stocks. Thus, the thinking goes, the longest of long-term investors must focus on companies with lower carbon emissions, as their polluting peers will eventually be regulated or shamed out of existence. 
The consensus is wrong on a crucial point: that society is sure to act to stop global warming. 
To be clear, there is overwhelming agreement among scientists that manmade climate change is a serious threat to the world. But investors can't count on technology to deliver a fix. And it is at least plausible, perhaps likely, that there will be insufficient global effort to limit or tax carbon emissions. From a purely financial point of view, the best response is to buy stocks in companies pumping out carbon. 
Put simply, including carbon emissions as an investment issue is a bet on political action. And not just any political action. It is a bet on an unprecedented degree of global cooperation to upend the lifestyles of large numbers of voters. This is very far from a sure thing. 
One of the world's biggest pension funds, Canada's Caisse de depot et placement du Quebec, is an example of the new thinking. The fund aims to reduce emissions per dollar invested by one-quarter by 2025 and cut back holdings of the worst carbon emitters, such as coal producers. 
"It's good for the planet and eventually you end up with a stranded asset otherwise," Emmanuel Jaclot, head of the fund's $16 billion infrastructure portfolio, told the Milken Institute London conference last week. 
However, the unwillingness of voters to suffer today to reduce emissions is obvious even in places where climate change is accepted as fact, such as Western Europe. Surveys showed strong public support for the violent gilets jaunes protests in France against higher fuel taxes that brought the country to a halt, forcing the government to scrap the tax increase and raise wages for the low paid. Blockades in the U.K. in 2000 had the same result. Meanwhile, Germany is absorbed in a fight between protesters trying to save an ancient forest and the country's biggest energy company, which wants to dig it up to get at lignite, the dirtiest form of coal. 
European voters are resisting changes that are relatively small compared with the wholesale economic transformation needed to avoid drastic climate change. 
In the U.S., the limited efforts by the federal government under previous presidents are being dismantled by Mr. Trump's administration, and the federal gas tax remains an untouchable third rail of politics, even though it is low by international standards. 
Many investors argue that states will take up the slack. But voters in liberal Washington state rejected in November an ambitious carbon tax for the second time, suggesting even progressives aren't willing to sacrifice their lifestyles to save the planet. 
Poor countries won't accept that they have to stay poor to avoid climate change caused by the industrialization of rich countries, either. And the idea of massive transfers to help poor countries develop without carbon is a political nonstarter for most rich-country voters. 
Investors who think serious global action is unlikely might bet on a "drill, baby, drill" portfolio of oil and coal producers. In a dystopian environment each country would complain that it couldn't act because others weren't acting, and all would end up ignoring carbon emissions and maximizing the cheapest fuel sources. 
There are two defenses for the big pension funds. Ideologically, it may be worthwhile investing in line with carbon goals to send a political message. Forcing Big Oil to stop spending money to lobby against climate change might ease the way to government action. Similarly, moving billions of dollars of investments around due to climate threats attracts lots of public attention and might help persuade voters of the dangers. 
Investors with $32 trillion of assets engaged in some more traditional lobbying this week by calling on leaders gathered in Poland to discuss the next steps on climate to put a price on carbon and phase out coal power. 
More practically, action on climate change may not be priced in. If investors have been ignoring the possibility of governments acting together on climate, then even a small chance that they do so should mean lower prices for mining and oil stocks once it is recognized -- and big knock-on effects throughout the market. 
"The market has been very complacent in pricing in the chance that this [action] does occur," said Tony Davis, founder of sustainable investor Inherent Group, and previously co-founder of New York hedge fund Anchorage Capital Group. 
Mr. Davis argues that as storms and sea-level rises make climate change more obvious, action will be taken. And he may well be right. But investors who want to make money should at least consider the possibility that voters and politicians won't be willing to accept the costs of fighting climate change. In that case, dirty oil and cheap coal may prove attractive -- along with a house on a hill far from the sea. 
Credit: By James Mackintosh 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject  Stocks; Institutional investments; Emissions; Politics; Carbon; Pension funds; Climate change; Coal; Tax increases  
Location  Western Europe; New York; United States--US; Canada; Quebec Canada; Germany; United Kingdom--UK; Poland; France; Washington (state)  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Milken Institute 541690  
Title  Streetwise: Investing in Rescuing The Planet Has Pitfalls  
Author  Mackintosh, James  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.1  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Dec 14, 2018  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  2155616105  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2155616105?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-12-17  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 6 of 376 


U.S. News --- CAPITAL JOURNAL: Climate Change Emerges From the Shadows 
Seib, Gerald F.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]11 Dec 2018: A.4. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News+--­+CAPITAL+JOURNAL%3A+Climate+Change+Emerges+From+the+Shadows&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2018-12­11&volume=&issue=&spage=A.4&au=Seib%2C+Gerald+F&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
What's the sleeper issue of the new political cycle? Here's a good bet: It will be climate change. 
The signs are proliferating rapidly. Twin wildfires in California last month have escalated public worries that climate changes are driving extreme natural calamities. While those fires burned, a new report from 13 federal agencies declared that "the impacts of climate change are already being felt in communities across the country" and predicted "more frequent and intense extreme weather and climate-related events." 
At the same time, this year's election is bringing to Washington a new set of players far more focused on climate change. Democrats will take over the House next year, propelled by a class of congressional freshmen clamoring loudly for new policies to fight global warming. They are being encouraged by swarms of climate-change activists, who again descended on the Capitol Monday. 
In a sign of this new alignment in Washington, Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer last week warned President Trump that Democrats would demand policies to address climate change in any legislation to improve the nation's infrastructure. 
New attention paid to climate change hardly translates into new consensus, however. In fact, the divisions over the issue actually may be growing more stark as its prominences rises. 
One good illustration of this divide arises not in the U.S. but in France. There, an attempt by President Emmanuel Macron to impose a carbon tax designed to reduce the use of fossil fuels helped set off rioting that compelled the French leader to scrap the tax. 
The debacle appears to have only strengthened Mr. Trump's disdain for policies designed to combat global warming. On Twitter, he said the Paris protests proved his point that an international accord to fight climate change is "fatally flawed" because it would raise energy prices for some countries but let developing-world polluters off the hook. 
More substantively, the administration's representatives at a United Nations climate conference now under way in Poland have joined with Russia, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait to block endorsement of a new study on the extent of global warming. Meantime, the administration is moving forward with plans to overturn Obama-era rules on coal-burning plants, enraging environmental groups. 
The splits on the topic reflect sharp differences between Trump supporters and detractors -- and between red Republican states and blue states dominated by Democrats. A study by the Brookings Institution found that, in the 2016 election, Mr. Trump carried 27 of the 32 states that emit the most energy-related carbon per capita. 
A similar divide was found when a Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll asked voters to rank the issues most important in deciding their vote in this year's midterms. Some 12% named climate change as the first or second most important issue -- almost all of them were Democrats or independents. A mere 2% of Republicans named climate change as a top issue. 
Moreover -- and not surprisingly -- concern about climate change was highest among younger voters, who form a core Democratic constituency these days. 
Against that backdrop, the loudest voices in Washington calling for policy action in months ahead figure to be the class of freshman Democratic members of Congress, whose election victories last month propelled their party's takeover of the House. Incoming Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, of New York, perhaps the most high-profile member of that new House class, arrived in town brandishing what she calls a "Green New Deal" for combating climate change. 
Her proposal calls for establishing a new select House committee for dealing with climate issues. That committee would be ordered to devise a plan to transition all American power generation to renewable sources within 10 years and provide "massive" investment in technology to draw down greenhouse gases. 
Those goals appear to have significant support among newly empowered Democrats. "It surprised me, but the biggest thing a lot of the freshmen just elected want is the [Green New Deal]," says Rep. Ro Khanna, a Democrat who represents California's Silicon Valley. He adds: "This is going to be the trick: How do we do it in a way that is job-creating?" 
That, indeed, is the rub for Democrats. While they tout the job-creating potential of clean energy sources, there also is ample fear in the industrial Midwest that policies to fight global warming will impose economic hardships in areas still dependent on smokestack industries. 
Democrats lost such areas to Mr. Trump in 2016 -- but then won them back, in Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and Michigan, this year. As concerns about climate change climb, the trick for Democrats will be to respond to the concern while keeping those kinds of voters on board as well. 
Credit: By Gerald F. Seib 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject  Riots; Climate change; Global warming; Congressional committees  
Location  Russia; Wisconsin; Kuwait; Pennsylvania; Poland; Michigan; France; Silicon Valley-California; New York; United States--US; Saudi Arabia; California  
People  Trump, Donald J; Schumer, Charles E; Khanna, Ro; Ocasio-Cortez, Alexandria; Macron, Emmanuel  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Wall Street Journal 511110;  
Name: NAICS:  United Nations--UN 928120;  
Name: NAICS:  Brookings Institution 541711, 541720;  
Name: NAICS:  Congress 921120;  
Name: NAICS:  Twitter Inc 519130;  
Name: NAICS:  Senate 921120;  
Name: NAICS:  NBC News Channel 515120  
Title  U.S. News --- CAPITAL JOURNAL: Climate Change Emerges From the Shadows  
Author  Seib, Gerald F  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.4  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Dec 11, 2018  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  2154016932  

Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2154016932?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-12-12  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 7 of 376 


Press Is the Enemy of Climate 
Jenkins, Holman W, Jr.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]05 Dec 2018: A.17. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Press+Is+the+Enemy+of+Climate&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn= 12-05&volume=&issue=&spage=A.17&au=Jenkins%2C+Holman+W%2C+Jr&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
There are lessons in the media's psychiatric moment last week over the newly published U.S. National Climate Assessment. 
Let's give the New York Times credit. It was braver than just about every other news organization when it said, in its lead sentence, the "damage will knock as much as 10 percent off the size of the American economy by century's end." 
I can't figure out where the Times got this, but it's the difference between, say, 2% and 1.86% annual growth over the next 82 years and happens to be about right. How does this justify the dire adjectives it was swathed in? It doesn't. I suspect that's why every other news report, including the Journal's, relied on adjectives alone rather than giving numbers -- because the numbers just aren't that alarming. 
What does the National Climate Assessment actually say? In 2090 the U.S. will experience annual climate-related costs of $500 billion. Notice that $500 billion, to echo a widespread misinterpretation of the Times report, is not 10% even of today's economy (it's 2.5%). It's 10% of 1971's economy. 
Steven Koonin, a former Obama administration official and physicist, made a similar point last week on these pages. He calculates that, after climate costs and modest assumptions about growth, 2090's economy would still be 3.8 times larger than today's. If so, $500 billion in annual costs would amount to just 0.6% of GDP. Understand too that many costs enumerated in the report are not detractors from gross domestic product but contributors to it. Building a sea wall adds to GDP. Constructing a house to withstand 2090's weather adds to GDP. 
Weirder still, I saw not one news report that ventured to say what the expected temperature would be in 2090. Maybe that's because doing so would reveal that these relatively bearable costs arise under a worst-case scenario for emissions, known as RCP 8.5, which would further undercut the media's hysterical adjectives. This is a shame because all such studies, including the new U.S. assessment, show that the biggest threat to climate is a lack of prosperity. 
In fact, RCP 8.5 is a model of emissions under conditions of economic stagnation. Trade, technology, global wealth and global per capita income stagnate. Demographic transitions to slower population growth don't occur. Fracking is essentially uninvented. Countries burn impossible amounts of coal because that's the only resource they have access to. 
Notice how important these assumptions are. It's a mouthful, but here's what the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change says: "The second-to-lowest RCP" [with about half the emissions of RCP 8.5] is "consistent with a baseline scenario that assumes a global development that focuses on technological improvements and a shift to service industries but does not aim to reduce greenhouse gas emissions as a goal in itself." 
That is, a fast-growing world is greener even if it's not trying to cut carbon. 
Unfortunately the environmentalist left has only itself to blame for the developed world's (not including the U.S.) wholesale flight in the wrong direction. In France, the target of the rioters may be a new fuel tax, implemented by the government as a gesture of climate virtue. But as every news account tells us, what really is bringing them into the streets is 30 years of slow growth and chronic joblessness caused by towering taxes and antibusiness regulation. 
Put aside scientific uncertainties, which we haven't talked about. The clear lesson of last week's U.S. government report and every other official assessment is that climate change is not the end of the world. We can handle the cost and we can also handle the cost of avoiding a portion of climate change through sensible tax policy. (It should not be necessary at this point to rehearse the case for a carbon tax that is simultaneously pro-growth and anti-carbon.) 
Unfortunately the U.S. media have become a positive hindrance to public understanding. Consider that systemization of banality known as Axios. Last week it told its presumably politically engaged readership that the way to "be smart" about climate change is to understand that "In climate science, one side is the scientific consensus, and the other is a small but vocal faction of people trying to fight it." 
In other words, reduce everything to a binary question of believers vs. deniers, good guys vs. bad guys. Here's the sad truth: This narrative is mostly an invention of journalists for their own convenience. It relieves them of having to understand a complicated subject. 
I'm not trying to be funny. Over the past 15 or 20 years, the climate beat has been handed over to reporter-activists who've decided that climate science is impenetrable but at least nobody ever got fired for exaggerating the risks of climate change. 
Their ignorant crisis-babble is why electorates everywhere now believe climate and prosperity are necessarily at odds. Every study, including the U.S. government's latest, shows the opposite: Continued prosperity is essential to mitigating the risks of climate change. 
Credit: By Holman W. Jenkins, Jr. 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject  Prosperity;  
Costs;  
Emissions;  
Climate science;  
Carbon;  
Climate change;  
Gross Domestic Product--GDP;  
Media coverage  
Location  United States--US; France  
Company / organization  Name: New York Times Co  
NAICS: 511110, 511120, 515112, 515120;  
Name: Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change  
NAICS: 541712, 928120  
Title  Press Is the Enemy of Climate  
Author  Jenkins, Holman W, Jr  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.17  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Dec 5, 2018  
column  Business World  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  2149555184  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2149555184?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2019-01-24  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 8 of 376 


The Carbon Tax Revolt 
Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]04 Dec 2018: A.18. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=The+Carbon+Tax+Revolt&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660 12-04&volume=&issue=&spage=A.18&au=&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
France's violent Yellow Vest protests are now about many domestic concerns, but it's no accident that the trigger was a fuel-tax hike. Nothing reveals the disconnect between ordinary voters and an aloof political class more than carbon taxation. 
The fault line runs between anti-carbon policies and economic growth, and France is a test for the political future of emissions restrictions. France already is a relatively low-carbon economy, with per-capita emissions half Germany's as of 2014. French governments have nonetheless pursued an "ecological transition" to further squeeze carbon emissions from every corner of the French economy. The results are visible in the Paris streets. 
President Emmanuel Macron and his Socialist predecessor Francois Hollande targeted auto emissions because they account for about 40% of France's carbon emissions from fuel combustion compared to 21% in Germany. But this is mainly because France relies heavily on nuclear power for electricity. Power generation and heating account for only 13% of French emissions, compared to 44% across the Rhine. French road-transport emissions were a mere 0.4% of global carbon emissions in 2016, when overall French emissions were less than 1%. 
Yet Paris insists on cutting more, though transport emissions are notoriously hard to reduce. Cleaner engines or affordable hybrids have been slow to emerge. Undeterred, Mr. Macron pushed ahead with a series of punitive tax hikes to discourage driving. 
The protesters in Paris will be expected to pay much of the up to 8 billion euro annual tab for a minuscule global benefit -- that's how much tax revenue Mr. Macron thinks his levies will raise. This is preposterous in an economy that still has an 8.9% jobless rate (21.5% for the young) and will struggle to hit 2% annual GDP growth. Yellow Vests from less prosperous rural areas, who depend on cars for daily life, know it. They're insulted when Mr. Macron tells them to wait for better public transport or to carpool -- yes, he really said that. They also assume that Paris will waste a fuel-tax windfall on boondoggles such as unreliable renewable power to replace zero-emissions nuclear plants. 
The carbon tax revolt is world-wide. Voters in Washington state last month rejected a carbon tax that would have started at $15 per ton of emissions and climbed $2 a year indefinitely. Washington ranks 25th among American states in carbon emissions and when we tried to estimate its contribution to global emissions our calculator couldn't handle a number that small. Gov. Jay Inslee and green activists nonetheless wanted voters to pay $2.3 billion in taxes over five years. 
Ontario province in Canada is suing to block a federal carbon tax, and the issue could topple the Alberta government and perhaps Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. Ontario Attorney General Caroline Mulroney warned that the federal tax grab "takes money from families' pockets and makes job creators less competitive." German Chancellor Angela Merkel's Energiewende -- a transition to renewables that has increased dirty coal emissions and caused household energy costs to soar -- has become a political liability. 
A carbon tax is in theory a more efficient way than regulation to reduce carbon emissions. But after decades of global conferences, forests of reports, dire television documentaries, celebrity appeals, school-curriculum overhauls and media bludgeoning, voters don't believe that climate change justifies policies that would raise their cost of living and hurt the economy. 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject 	Political activism; 

Emissions; 

Carbon; 
Environmental tax; 

Tax increases; 
Editorials 


Location 	Canada; Germany; France; Washington (state) 
People 	Trudeau, Justin; Merkel, Angela; Macron, Emmanuel; Hollande, Francois; Inslee, Jay 
Title 	The Carbon Tax Revolt 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.18 
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Dec 4, 2018  
column  REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  2148555780  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2148555780?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-12-04  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 9 of 376 


Business News: India's Adani Shrinks Coal Project in Australia 
Hoyle, Rhiannon.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]30 Nov 2018: B.5. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Business+News%3A+India%27s+Adani+Shrinks+Coal+Project+in+Aus 11-30&volume=&issue=&spage=B.5&au=Hoyle%2C+Rhiannon&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
SYDNEY -- Indian conglomerate Adani Group has scaled back sharply plans to create one of the world's biggest new coal mines in eastern Australia's mining heartland. 
The plans, developed eight years ago, promised jobs, infrastructure and a source of fuel for India, whose industrializing economy is playing catch-up to neighboring China. 
Adani has cut back those plans after a sustained campaign by activists encouraged several Wall Street banks to veto funding. Tourism operators feared a surge in ships passing through the Great Barrier Reef, already under threat from invasive species and warming seas. 
Adani's plans also prompted soul-searching among lawmakers in Australia about the future of coal. It is one of the country's top exports and a source of revenue for communities that have few industries other than farming, but there are concerns about its contribution to pollution and climate change. 
On Thursday, Adani said it would self-fund the new mine and a railway for hauling its coal to the coast, where it will be shipped to the company's own power plants in India. It aims to start construction immediately. 
The Carmichael mine, located in an arid part of Queensland state, will be much smaller than originally envisaged. Adani had once touted a 16.5 billion Australian dollars (US$12.1 billion) project producing 60 million tons of thermal coal annually. But it struggled to get external funding. 
Management didn't state how much the mine would initially produce or cost, other than to say it would be "comparable to many other Queensland coal mines" and that it hopes to expand to 27.5 million tons a year over time. 
Globally, there has been a slowdown in financing new projects for mining coal, considered one of the dirtiest fossil fuels. The World Bank stopped financing coal in 2010, and many international banks are turning away from new projects. Environmentalists in Australia campaigned for global lenders such as Morgan Stanley and Deutsche Bank AG to refuse to assist Adani's plans in Queensland. 
Still, coal remains popular as one of the cheapest fuels to burn and continues to hold the top spot in power generation, accounting for as much of the world's electricity as it did two decades ago. 
"Today's announcement removes any doubt as to the project stacking up financially," said Adani Mining Chief Executive Lucas Dow. 
Financing wasn't the only challenge Adani faced in getting the project to construction. In 2015, the company's plan for the Carmichael project was blocked by a court on concerns that it didn't do enough to protect a native lizard called the yakka skink and another vulnerable species, the ornamental snake. Adani got government support two months later, with conditions safeguarding the species. 
Credit: By Rhiannon Hoyle 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject 	Mines; 

Coal mining 


Location 	Australia; Queensland Australia; Great Barrier Reef; China; United States--US; India 
Company / organization 	Name: Adani Group 

NAICS: 212112, 212210; 


Name: International Bank for Reconstruction & Development--World Bank 

NAICS: 928120; 

Name: Morgan Stanley 

NAICS: 523110, 523120, 523920; 


Name: Deutsche Bank AG NAICS: 522110, 551111 
Title  Business News: India's Adani Shrinks Coal Project in Australia  
Author  Hoyle, Rhiannon  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.5  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Nov 30, 2018  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2139483874  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2139483874?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-11-30  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 10 of 376 


World News: U.N. Says Emissions Pledges Fall Short 
Puko, Timothy.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]28 Nov 2018: A.9. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=World+News%3A+U.N.+Says+Emissions+Pledges+Fall+Short&title=Wa 11-28&volume=&issue=&spage=A.9&au=Puko%2C+Timothy&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- Promises from nations around the world to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions fall far short of what is necessary to avoid catastrophic climate change, according to a new United Nations report that urges more-ambitious commitments to curb global warming. 
The U.N. assessment, a progress report on climate-change mitigation, suggests current commitments put global temperatures on pace to rise 3 degrees Celsius by 2100. That is nearly double what many scientists say is the most the world can handle without destruction of entire ecosystems and a rise in sea levels that would flood many major cities and some entire countries. 
For the report, the U.N. assembled a team of scientists to review the latest research on global-emissions trends and the effects of climate change. The team then compared that research with the national targets currently set by countries to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions, which most scientists say cause climate change. 
The report echoes findings of the U.S. government's National Climate Assessment, released Friday, which said that global warming is primarily caused by humans and that continuing efforts to counteract the effects of rising temperatures aren't enough, with potentially devastating economic consequences. 
President Trump said Monday that he doesn't believe the predictions from the career scientists and academics contracted to work for his administration that global climate change could lead to hundreds of billions of dollars in annual economic losses. 
Philip Drost, program officer at the U.N.'s environmental arm, criticized the countries that have been reluctant to move away from burning fuels like oil and coal, which add carbon dioxide and other heat-trapping gases to the atmosphere. He said that is the biggest obstacle to the world's ability to meet its commitments to slow global warming. 
"The missing link here is leadership," Mr. Drost said. "It's a matter of countries not yet wanting to take those bold steps. It is of course an incredibly difficult task to move from a fossil-fuel-based economy to a carbon-free economy." 
The U.N. is beginning a year of negotiations tied to 2015's Paris climate accord. Next week, diplomats head to Poland to complete rules coming out of the agreement, and U.N. leaders will spend 2019 working through a process under the agreement that encourages countries to periodically update and potentially boost their commitments to reducing greenhouse-gas emissions. 
While some parts of the Trump administration are still active in that process, Mr. Trump has positioned himself in opposition to it. 
He announced last year his intent to withdraw the U.S. from the agreement, a stance he can officially request as early as November 2019 and potentially execute a year after. 
The U.S. has become a world leader in reducing emissions in recent years as booming natural-gas production helped the U.S. move away from burning more carbon-rich coal for power. 
Mr. Trump says China and other countries should do more to reduce their emissions. China has promised to do that, but only after allowing its emissions to keep rising for several more years. Like those of many developing countries that signed on to the Paris accord, China's commitments to cut emissions kick in years from now. 
Global emissions show no signs of peaking at all, the U.N. says in the report. A peak before 2020 is crucial to meeting the targets of the Paris accord, but at this point it isn't likely even before 2030, the report says. 
Credit: By Timothy Puko 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject 	Global warming; 
Gases; 
Emissions; 

Carbon; 
Greenhouse effect; 
Climate change; 
Natural gas 


Location 	China; Poland; United States--US 
People  Trump, Donald J  
Company / organization  Name: United Nations--UN  
NAICS: 928120  
Title  World News: U.N. Says Emissions Pledges Fall Short  
Author  Puko, Timothy  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.9  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Nov 28, 2018  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2138490920  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2138490920?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-11-28  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 11 of 376 


U.S. News: Report Warns of Economic Losses From Climate Change 
Robert Lee Hotz.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]24 Nov 2018: A.3. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+Report+Warns+of+Economic+Losses+From+Climate+ 11-24&volume=&issue=&spage=A.3&au=Robert+Lee+Hotz&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
The impact of global climate change is being felt across the country and, unchecked, could cause U.S. economic losses totaling hundreds of billions of dollars a year by the end of the century, says a U.S. government report released Friday. 
Many U.S. communities and companies are trying to counteract the effects of rising temperatures ranging from water shortages or flooding to worsening wildfires and air pollution. But those measures so far fall short, according to the latest installment of the U.S. National Climate Assessment. 
"Neither global efforts to mitigate the causes of climate change nor regional efforts to adapt to the impacts currently approach the scales needed to avoid substantial damages to the U.S. economy, environment, and human health and well-being," the report said. 
The federal report concludes "that the evidence of human-caused climate change is overwhelming and continues to strengthen, that the impacts of climate change are intensifying across the country, and that climate-related threats to Americans' physical, social, and economic well-being are rising." 
Mandated by law since 1990, the official climate assessment is produced every four years by the U.S. Global Change Research Program to guide federal policy makers. The new edition highlights the local impact of rising temperatures across the U.S. 
"This report makes it clear that climate change is not some problem in the distant future. It's happening right now in every part of the country," said Brenda Ekwurzel, climate science director at the Union of Concerned Scientists and a report author. "When people say the wildfires, hurricanes and heat waves they're experiencing are unlike anything they've seen before, there's a reason for that, and it's called climate change." 
The report's conclusions are at odds with statements by President Trump, who has been skeptical of global-warming trends, questioned the validity of climate science, and challenged federal regulations designed to control greenhouse-gas emissions. 
"There has been no external interference in the development of this report," said David Easterling, director of the technical support unit at the National Centers for Environmental Information, who helped prepare the 1,500-page assessment. 
More than 300 experts guided by a 60-member Federal Advisory Committee produced the report. It was then reviewed by federal agencies including the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the Energy Department and the Environmental Protection Agency. The report's authors also conducted regional workshops in over 40 cities. 
All told, 17 of the 18 warmest years on record have occurred since 2000. Broadly, the warming trend has been driven in large part by land-use changes, including cutting down forests and paving over natural surfaces, and rising emissions of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide from the burning of fossil fuels and methane from livestock production, scientists say. 
In a separate federal report released Friday, researchers concluded that fossil-fuel emissions in North America have been declining steadily for the past decade, due to a reduced reliance on coal, greater use of natural gas, and increased vehicle fuel-efficiency standards. 
As a result, North America's share of global carbon emissions dropped from 24% in 2004 to about 17% in 2013, said William Hohenstein, director of the Office of Energy and Environmental Policy at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
Credit: By Robert Lee Hotz 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject 	Emissions; 

Climate science; 
Greenhouse effect; 
Climate change 


Location 	United States--US; North America 
People 	Trump, Donald J 
Company / organization 	Name: Union of Concerned Scientists 
NAICS:  813920;  
Name:  Department of Agriculture  
NAICS:  926140;  
Name:  National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration--NOAA  
NAICS:  924120;  
Name:  Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS:  924110  

Title  U.S. News: Report Warns of Economic Losses From Climate Change  
Author  Robert Lee Hotz  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.3  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Nov 24, 2018  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2137092969  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2137092969?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-11-24  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 12 of 376 


Debating Washington Carbon Tax Initiative 
Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]30 Oct 2018: A.16. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Debating+Washington+Carbon+Tax+Initiative&title=Wall+Street+Journ 10-30&volume=&issue=&spage=A.16&au=&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Your editorial "Washington's Carbon Tax: Take Two" (Oct. 22) points out that some emissions sources are exempted by Washington's carbon-fee ballot initiative and asks: For 
those worried about climate change, why tolerate exceptions? Energy intensive and trade-exposed businesses were excluded because they might have fled the state and brought their emissions elsewhere. Imposing the carbon fee on the state's coal plant that is shutting down by 2025 would have violated a previous commitment to the owners of the plant, its workers and the surrounding community. Finally, for dispersed sources of emissions, such as emissions from agricultural lands, a carbon fee isn't the right policy tool because monitoring and enforcement would be overly burdensome. 
It is correct that like any other serious policy that reduces greenhouse-gas emissions, a carbon tax would raise energy costs and, by itself, have only minimal effect on global emissions. But state-level policy can spur action in other states and at the federal level and thus lead to larger emissions reductions. Economists have long supported carbon taxes as the most cost-effective way to reduce emissions. 
When they vote on Initiative 1631, the real question in front of Washington voters is whether to do something, or nothing, about the risks of climate change. Noah Kaufman, Ph.D. Director Carbon Tax Research Initiative Columbia University New York 
If liberals don't accept a revenue-neutral fossil-carbon fee and dividend plan, the hope to avoid catastrophic climate change will diminish. 
Conservatives, however, should also accept a revenue-neutral approach. Your statement, "businesses said it would destroy jobs and increase energy prices, which is true," 

disagrees with the results of a detailed study that showed that jobs and GDP would increase with a fee and dividend. This occurs because the poor spend their dividend, and the 
rich, who pay more in fees, don't change their spending much. The study can be found on the website for the Citizen's Climate Lobby. 
James A. Martin, Sc.D. 
Huntington Beach, Calif. 

Your editorial correctly points out that liberals are wrong to push for a carbon tax to increase government spending. That would harm the economy. However, if carbon-tax revenue was instead used to make President Trump's tax cuts permanent or reduce other harmful taxes, it would help expand the economy -- especially if the carbon taxes replaced the costly regulatory regime currently in place. 
According to a new EY analysis, a regulatory approach to reduce carbon pollution would reduce gross domestic product in the long run by an average of $1,770 per household annually. However, the report shows that accomplishing the same reductions in carbon pollution through a revenue-neutral carbon tax would increase GDP in the long-run by an average of $5,090 per household every year. 
Without additional government spending in the mix, a revenue-neutral carbon tax is an efficient, conservative solution that can be coupled with a roll back in regulations and offsetting tax cuts to boost the economy, protect the environment and spur innovation. 
Rep. Francis Rooney (R., Fla.) 
Washington 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject  Economic models;  
Carbon;  
Tax cuts;  
Taxes;  
Climate change;  
Gross Domestic Product--GDP;  
Fees & charges;  
Environmental tax  
Location  New York; Huntington Beach California  
People  Trump, Donald J; Rooney, Francis  
Company / organization  Name: Columbia University  
NAICS: 611310  
Title  Debating Washington Carbon Tax Initiative  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.16  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Oct 30, 2018  
Section  Letters to the Editor  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2126767862  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2126767862?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-10-30  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 13 of 376 


Japan's Inpex Ships Natural Gas 
Negishi, Mayumi.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]24 Oct 2018: B.13. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Japan%27s+Inpex+Ships+Natural+Gas&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn 10-24&volume=&issue=&spage=B.13&au=Negishi%2C+Mayumi&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
TOKYO -- Japan's top oil and gas producer, Inpex Corp., has begun shipping liquefied natural gas from its $40 billion project off the coast of Australia, a long-delayed milestone 
in Tokyo's push to secure more sources of fuel. 
Inpex said Tuesday it sent the first LNG shipment to Japan from the Ichthys project, the biggest single overseas investment by resource-poor Japan. 

The project and others may help feed Asian demand for LNG as China has curbed its purchases from the U.S. as part of their trade conflict. 
Originally slated to cost $34 billion with a 2016 start date, the Ichthys project comprises an offshore gas field, a 553-mile pipeline and liquefaction facilities in Darwin, Australia. 
There the gas is superchilled and turned into a liquid that can be carried on a ship to Japan or other markets. 

The project is expected to increase production to 8.9 million tons a year over the next two to three years. That is equivalent to about 10% of Japan's current LNG imports. 
It is heartening news for China, which sees sudden rises in demand for LNG during the winter months. While about 70% of Ichthys LNG is now contracted by Japanese 
customers, supply from the project could help relieve some pressure in a tightening market, smarting from China's decision last month to levy a 10% tariff on LNG from the 

U.S. 
Japan has encouraged the development of a global market for trading LNG similar to the longstanding one for crude oil, so that countries can deal more flexibly with shifts such as the U.S.-China trade conflict. Japan has already been increasing purchases of U.S. LNG and could step up the pace in light of the Chinese tariffs. Climate-change concerns will spur demand for LNG, which can replace coal in generating electricity, said Japan's minister of economy, trade and industry at a conference in 
Nagoya, Japan, on Monday. 
"Rising Chinese demand means tighter supply and demand for LNG in the 2020s," said the minister, Hiroshige Seko. 
Inpex owns 62% of Ichthys LNG. France's Total SA holds 30%. 
Credit: By Mayumi Negishi 

(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Subject 	LNG; 
Shipping industry; 
Natural gas; 
Supply & demand 


Location 	Australia; China; United States--US; France; Japan 
Company / organization 	Name: Total SA 

NAICS: 211111, 324110, 447190; 


Name: Inpex Corp 

NAICS: 211111 


Title  Japan's Inpex Ships Natural Gas  
Author  Negishi, Mayumi  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  

Pages  B.13  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Oct 24, 2018  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2124401336  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2124401336?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-10-24  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 14 of 376 


A Quiet Revolution Has Given the U.S. Smarter Regulations 
Sunstein, Cass R.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]22 Oct 2018: A.19. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=A+Quiet+Revolution+Has+Given+the+U.S.+Smarter+Regulations&title 10-22&volume=&issue=&spage=A.19&au=Sunstein%2C+Cass+R&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
The U.S. has experienced a quiet revolution in the past 40 years. It began under Ronald Reagan but has been embraced by all of his successors, most notably Barack Obama, who doubled down on the basic idea: Before imposing new regulations, federal agencies must perform a cost-benefit analysis and demonstrate that the benefits justify the costs. 
In areas from highway safety to occupational health and from energy to homeland security, agencies are now required to develop a detailed, quantitative account of the likely effects of their proposals -- and to offer that account to the American public. The key work is done not by politicians but by civil servants with professional expertise. For that reason, there has been surprising continuity between Republican and Democratic administrations. The benefits of a food-safety regulation should be, and usually are, determined by looking at science and economics, not opinion polls or party platforms. 
To his credit, Donald Trump has mostly embraced the cost-benefit revolution. Without much fanfare, his administration has quietly affirmed, or declined to disturb, a large number of regulations whose benefits seem to exceed their costs. But when it comes to crucial issues related to climate change and the environment, this principle has sometimes been abandoned. In some prominent cases, political predilections appear to be running the show. 
When officials project the benefits of regulations that reduce greenhouse-gas emissions, they use a number known as "the social cost of carbon." That number is exceedingly important. It helps determine the proper stringency of fuel-economy regulations, energy-efficiency regulations and regulation of coal-fired power plants. If the social cost of carbon is high, then stricter regulations are justified. 
In a laborious and highly technical process to estimate the social cost of carbon, the Obama administration drew on the best available work on science and economics. The research of Yale's William Nordhaus, who this year won the Nobel Prize in Economics, played a crucial role. As of 2016, the official social cost of carbon used by the U.S. government was $36 per metric ton of carbon dioxide emissions. While many scientists and economists think that's too low, a federal appeals court upheld the Energy Department's use of the Obama administration's social cost of carbon in its cost-benefit analysis of energy-efficiency standards. The Government Accountability Office found this estimate was the result of a technical inquiry rather than politics. 
Slashing the social cost of carbon was a high political priority for the Trump administration as soon as it took office. The Environmental Protection Agency now uses two numbers: $1 and $6. (The lower figure discounts the future at a rate of 7%, the higher at a rate of 3%.) As a result, the benefits of regulations that reduce greenhouse gas emissions look pretty meager. 
It's perfectly legitimate for the administration to reassess the numbers used by its predecessor. But the Trump administration's math suffers from two flaws. It does not take account of the latest science and economics, which support a higher number, and its approach considers only the damage that U.S. emissions do domestically, ignoring the damage that such emissions do to people in other countries. If every nation did that, Americans themselves would be big losers. The only way to solve the climate-change problem, and to prevent massive harm in the U.S., is for all the world's big emitters to agree to take account of the global damage. 
According to multiple reports, the Trump administration is also planning to ignore the "co-benefits" of regulations, which come about when a regulation is designed to solve one problem but ends up addressing other problems as well. A fuel-economy regulation designed to reduce dependence on foreign oil, for instance, might also save consumers a lot of money. 
It's true that benefits should not be double-counted. But both Republican and Democratic administrations have worked to avoid that mistake while counting all effects, good and bad, of regulations. In what would be a costly blunder leading to a significant increase in premature deaths, the Environmental Protection Agency is apparently preparing to disregard co-benefits when scaling back its rule governing mercury emissions. 
In an era of partisanship and polarization, the commitment to cost-benefit balancing has unified Democratic and Republican administrations. Beneath the headlines, it has ensured a great deal of continuity in federal regulations, spurring sensible initiatives, blocking senseless ones, and promoting repeal of silly ones. The Trump administration deserves credit for its acceptance of the cost-benefit revolution. But on some of the era's most important issues, it is abandoning it -- apparently in deference to interest groups and political dogmas. 
Mr. Sunstein is a professor at Harvard Law School and author of "The Cost-Benefit Revolution" (MIT Press, 2018). From 2009-12, he was administrator of the White House Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs. 
(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: Debating the Social Cost of CO2 Emissions" -- WSJ Oct. 26, 2018) 
Credit: By Cass R. Sunstein 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject  Regulation; Emissions; Carbon; Coal-fired power plants; Environmental protection; Social costs; Benefit cost analysis; Industrial plant emissions  
Location  United States--US  
People  Trump, Donald J; Reagan, Ronald Wilson; Nordhaus, William; Obama, Barack  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  MIT Press 511120;  
Name: NAICS:  Harvard Law School 611310;  
Name: NAICS:  Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 924110;  
Name: NAICS:  Government Accountability Office 921130  
Title  A Quiet Revolution Has Given the U.S. Smarter Regulations  
Author  Sunstein, Cass R  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.19  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Oct 22, 2018  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2123602581  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2123602581?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-10-25  

Database US Newsstream 
document 15 of 376 


A House Majority by 'Any Means Necessary' 
Peterson, Kyle.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]20 Oct 2018: A.11. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=A+House+Majority+by+%27Any+Means+Necessary%27&title=Wall+St 10-20&volume=&issue=&spage=A.11&au=Peterson%2C+Kyle&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Elgin, Ill. -- Ask Sean Casten about the sharp tone of his congressional campaign, and he responds by going for the jugular. In a bellwether race as Democrats try to take the House, Mr. Casten has been accused by his opponent, six-term GOP Rep. Peter Roskam, of spraying "rhetorical gasoline" and "parroting Donald Trump." Nonsense, replies the Democratic challenger. 
"If you don't have a thick skin, I'm not sure why you're in politics," Mr. Casten says, after we duck into a quiet corner during an office-park meet-and-greet. "What Roskam is offended by is that I've had the temerity to speak truth to power. He's voted 94% of the time with Trump. He has on his website that he is proud to work at Denny Hastert's desk. I'm opposed to pedophilia. If that bothers him, that's between him and his God." 
Say what? 
To back up a smidge: Mr. Casten is referring to an old press release, from 2011, on Mr. Roskam's official website. It explained that Dennis Hastert, who served as House speaker from 1999-2007, was passing down a "historic desk" used by Illinois congressmen since the 1940s. Five years after bequeathing the antique, Mr. Hastert admitted he had sexually abused boys as a high-school wrestling coach in the 1960s and '70s. And this horrifying crime now reflects on Mr. Roskam . . . how, exactly? 
Welcome to Illinois's Sixth Congressional District, where the political debate this year is peppered with casual references to Nazis, morons and, yes, pedophiles. These Chicagoland suburbs, which went for Hillary Clinton by 7 points in 2016, are a prime pickup opportunity for Democrats. The district, shaped like a cocktail shrimp, arcs between O'Hare Airport and the particle accelerator at Fermilab. Half of adult residents went to college, one-fifth have a graduate degree, and the median household earns $99,000. 
But a journalist who parachutes into the Sixth District, expecting to write about tax policy or health care, soon ends up pondering stranger questions: Is civility simply outmoded in 2018, the equivalent of bringing a flintlock musket to a gunfight? Even in the Midwest's tree-lined suburbs, which are full of the educated women who fled the GOP under Donald Trump? 
Mr. Roskam, whose harshest censure is occasionally to call his opponent "obtuse," doesn't think so. "It's primarily moms who are the guardians of civil discourse," he tells me at a tiny Dunkin' Donuts in Elk Grove Village. "They're not impressed with the president, who tweets the way he tweets. And they're not impressed by my opponent, who tweets the way he tweets." A minute later, he adds: "What I'm communicating to them is, 'I'm not going to embarrass you like that.'" 
But in these heady days, who's embarrassed? On Tuesday the president of the United States, writing on Twitter, insulted a stripper, who claims to have had an affair with him and then unsuccessfully sued him for defamation, by calling her "Horseface." Democrats, incensed by Mr. Trump, the confirmation of Justice Brett Kavanaugh and much else, have shouted GOP officials out of restaurants and picketed their front lawns. Rep. Maxine Waters, whose Democratic constituency near Los Angeles gave Mrs. Clinton 78% of its vote, made headlines a few months back by expressly endorsing these kinds of tactics. 
What makes Mr. Casten's fiery message notable is that he is trying to win a swing district. Most politicians, as Election Day approaches, water down their rhetoric to attract independent voters. Mr. Casten keeps pouring 100-proof whiskey. When the Trump administration this summer was separating families of illegal aliens, he said in a Chicago Tribune debate that "we are literally kidnapping babies at the border." At the suburban Daily Herald last month, he said wealth inequality is, historically speaking, "getting dangerously close to the levels that precede revolutions." The same day he repeated a conspiracy theory that an attorney -- reported to be of Mexican and Jewish descent -­was "flashing white-power signs behind the Brett Kavanaugh hearings." 
A political newcomer, Mr. Casten pitches himself as a truth-teller in an age of alternative facts. He spent his career fighting climate change while making a profit by capturing wasted energy at factories or converting coal utilities to natural gas. He says he voted for George H.W. Bush and Bob Dole, but he characterizes today's GOP as complicit in the rise of a demagogue. "This isn't partisan," he tells a crowd of about 100 in Elgin, "to call out misogyny, to call out racism, to call out the fact that there was an actual member of the Hungarian Nazi Party in the White House." (Mr. Casten is referring to Sebastian Gorka, a former Trump adviser, who denies having Nazi connections or anti-Semitic views.) 
Even beyond Mr. Trump, the two Sixth District contenders don't agree on much. Mr. Roskam, a fairly conventional Republican, has voted to repeal and replace ObamaCare. He describes himself as pro-life. He helped write last year's tax reform and says it's working, "no question." He cites a visit to a manufacturer in Downers Grove, during which his hosts pointed out $4 million of new equipment: "They said the only reason they bought it this year was because of the tax reform -- full expensing." 
The congressman rates the president's performance as "middling." After Mr. Trump's solicitous Helsinki press conference with Vladimir Putin, Mr. Roskam called it "an affront to American democracy." He opposed pulling out of the Paris climate accord and says "the smarter move was: stay in, stay at the table, have more influence." In principle, he thinks Congress should reclaim authority over trade and tariffs it has delegated to the president. 
Mr. Casten, in contrast, wants to repeal the tax law altogether. "It has been a massive boon to the owners of capital," he says. "Dividends are up, stock repurchases are up, but median wage growth is actually down." He instead credits President Obama for low unemployment and other rosy indicators: "We're just continuing on the same trend line." Mr. Casten thinks universal health care, expanding ObamaCare with a "public option," could save the U.S. perhaps $1 trillion a year. 
He sees abortion "as a medical procedure, like a gallbladder surgery," he explained in a July debate. Thus he has no qualms about spending taxpayer money on it. Most such funding is blocked currently by the Hyde Amendment, named for Mr. Roskam's Sixth District predecessor, Rep. Henry Hyde. "There is absolutely no -- zero, zippo, zilch -­evidence that reducing access to abortion reduces the incidence of abortion," Mr. Casten says. "So all that that does is put women's lives at risk. It's stupid policy. And I would love, as the inheritor of Henry Hyde's seat, to be able to cast the deciding vote to repeal it." 
Finally, he paints Mr. Roskam as a flunky for Mr. Trump. "I think you have an obligation, if you have the bully pulpit, to call out the fact that we have a demagogue in the White House," Mr. Casten says, "and that there have been horrible demagogues throughout history who have used the exact same playbook Trump is using." He presents the question of impeaching Mr. Trump in pragmatic terms. "I can say with absolute certainty, every day he's in office is a danger to the country and to the world," Mr. Casten says. But ousting a president requires a two-thirds Senate vote: "I think there's a real danger in having an impeachment if he's not removed, because you've now made the situation worse." 
It's hard to know, in the end, how much to make of Mr. Casten's rhetoric. Sometimes his remarks seem like missteps by a first-time candidate. This summer the Washington Free Beacon posted audio of him opining that "Trump and Osama bin Laden have a tremendous amount in common, because they have both figured out how to use the bully pulpit to activate marginalized young men." He apologized for the comparison. 
Other times, the provocations appear intentional. In December, commenting on news that the Republican National Committee had reinstated its support for Alabama Senate candidate Roy Moore, Mr. Casten tweeted that the GOP "is officially now the Pedophile Party." Nearly a year later, after Mr. Roskam has brought up that tweet more than once in public debates, it still hasn't been deleted. Why not? 
Back in Elgin, as the interview concludes, I thank Mr. Casten for his time, and we amble toward the dessert table. While we walk, I toss out what seems like a throwaway question. Asked in February to name "one current leader who most inspires you," Mr. Casten picked 
Dan Savage, a sex columnist. What motivated that choice? "He has this combination," Mr. Casten explains, "of completely righteous indignation, and an awesome sense of humor." He cites a contest Mr. Savage held in 2003 to name a graphic sex term after then-Sen. Rick Santorum. The Savage neologism later made news in the runup to the 2012 presidential election. As Mr. Santorum sought the Republican nomination, the top Google search result for his name was this explicit definition. 
Mr. Casten then offers up another story. In the 1980s, he says, an activist was trying to get New York's Mayor Ed Koch to take a strong stance on the AIDS crisis. Koch, who always deflected rumors he was gay, kept demurring. So the activist, in Mr. Casten's telling, played hardball: "Finally he went to Koch, and he goes, 'Here's the deal. I'm going to tell the Daily News tomorrow that I had sex with you in a bathhouse last night unless you do f---ing something about this AIDS crisis, because my goddamn friends are dying.'" 
The result? "Koch stepped up," Mr. Casten recounts, laughing. "And sometimes the world needs that, right? I'm not saying that's necessarily me." But at times, he believes, the Savages are on the right side of history: "There's points where people who are willing to go beyond the norms of discourse have an advantage, if nobody's willing to go there. And sometimes you need people who will say, 'You know what, I'll meet you out there in that world, and I'm going to bring you back in, and I'll use any means necessary.'" 
Mr. Peterson is a member of the Journal's editorial board. 
(See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: Casten Has the Anti-Pedophile Vote Secured" -- WSJ Nov. 3, 2018) 
Credit: By Kyle Peterson 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject 	Tax reform; 
Presidents; 
Pedophilia; 
Aliens; 
Political parties 


Location 	Illinois 
People 	Trump, Donald J; Kavanaugh, Brett 
Company / organization 	Name: Republican Party 

NAICS: 813940 


Title 	A House Majority by 'Any Means Necessary' 
Author 	Peterson, Kyle 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.11 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Oct 20, 2018 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2122999917  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2122999917?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-11-02  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 16 of 376 


The U.N.'s Doomsday Climate Clock 
Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]16 Oct 2018: A.16. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=The+U.N.%27s+Doomsday+Climate+Clock&title=Wall+Street+Journ 10-16&volume=&issue=&spage=A.16&au=&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Have we reached peak alarmism on climate change? The question occurs after the muted reaction last week to the latest forecast from the United Nation's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. In case you hadn't heard we're all doomed, yet the world mostly yawned. This is less complacency than creeping scientific and political realism. 
The U.N. panel says the apocalypse is nigh -- literally. According to its calculations, global carbon emissions must fall 45% by 2030 -- twice as much as its earlier forecasts -­and the world must wean itself entirely off fossil fuels over three decades to prevent a climate catastrophe that will include underwater coastlines and widespread drought and disease. 
These reductions are "possible within the laws of chemistry and physics," said the report's co-author Jim Skea, and that's a relief. But he added: "Doing so would require unprecedented changes," and the report said some methods "are at different stages of development and some are more conceptual than others, as they have not been tested at scale." 
Also not tested over time are the panel's climate models, which are sensitive to forecasts of population growth, ocean currents and radiative forcing, among myriad scientific variables that are not well understood. The IPCC's forecasts keep changing because climate models are still in an early stage of development. 
Amid the Paris climate conclave of 2015 the IPCC predicted that two degrees of warming over pre-industrial levels would prevent Armageddon. Now after further study the IPCC has lowered its safety line to 1.5 degrees. 
According to the IPCC, two degrees of warming would destroy all coral reefs while a 1.5 degree temperature increase would wipe out around 90%. About 80 million people could be affected by rising sea levels if temperatures rise by two degrees versus 70 million with 1.5 degrees of warming. Some 350 million city dwellers could experience a water shortage if temperatures increase by 1.5 degrees and 411 million if they rise by two. 
In other words, humanity is doomed under the IPCC's models no matter what we do. Nonetheless, the IPCC is urging immediate, drastic and large-scale economic changes that would affect everything from the kinds of cars people drive to foods they eat. Millions of acres of farmland would have to be converted into forests or plastered over with solar panels. 
Some $2.4 trillion in annual investment in climate mitigation and adaptation -- about 2.5% of world GDP -- would also be needed over the next two decades. Yet as economist Bjorn Lomborg noted in these pages last week, the IPCC estimated a few years ago that unmitigated global warming in 60 years would cost between 0.2% and 2% annually of world GDP. So we're supposed to spend more as a share of GDP now than the problem will cost in 60 years when the world would have far more resources to cope with it? 
Perhaps the sheer implausibility of these remedies helps to explain why the reaction to the U.N. report was so muted. Why turn the entire global economic system upside down if we're all doomed anyway? 
The IPCC also recommends a carbon tax to spur more investment in renewables and embryonic and expensive technologies to capture carbon from the atmosphere. On cue, Exxon Mobil last week pledged $1 million as political penance to promote a carbon tax, which the company knows would be passed onto consumers. 
A carbon tax is in theory the best way to combat the climate externalities of fossil fuels. And we might support a carbon levy if it were offset by the elimination of other taxes -­such as the income tax. But the left wants a carbon tax in addition to all current taxes to control more of the private economy. 
This explains the frequent political backlash to carbon taxes where they've been tried. After Australia's Labor Party implemented a $23 per ton carbon tax in 2012, conservatives rode to power on a campaign of repeal as electricity and gasoline prices soared. Canadian provincial governments including Alberta's New Democratic Party Premier Rachel Notley are protesting Justin Trudeau's carbon tax proposal. 
Not that these carbon taxes would make an iota of a difference according to the IPCC's models. Most carbon taxes are around $20 per ton. Yet the panel estimates a global carbon price of between $135 to $5,500 per ton -- which would increase the cost of gas by between $1.20 to $49 per gallon -- would be required to keep warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius. Europe is also proving the limits of its carbon sacrifices, as renewables fail to meet expectations and even the green believers in Germany increase their use of coal. 
President Trump has been chastised far and wide for withdrawing from the Paris climate pact. But U.S. carbon emissions have declined by 14% since 2005 thanks to the boom in shale fracking as cheap natural gas has replaced coal as the top fuel source for electricity generation. This is the result of market forces and private innovation, not the political control of global investment and consumption that the U.N. says is necessary. 
If the U.N.'s catastrophists are right, then the only real salvation will come from technological breakthroughs such as better batteries or carbon capture or nuclear power. Meantime, governments should focus on growing their economies and bolstering living standards so we can better afford to cope with whatever challenge the world brings. 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject  Fossil fuels; Carbon; Politics; Taxes; Environmental tax; Climate change; Gross Domestic Product--GDP; Editorials  
Location  United States--US; Germany; Australia; Europe  
People  Notley, Rachel; Trump, Donald J; Trudeau, Justin  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Exxon Mobil Corp 211111, 447110;  
Name: NAICS:  Democratic Party 813940;  
Name: NAICS:  Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 541712, 928120  
Title  The U.N.'s Doomsday Climate Clock  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.16  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Oct 16, 2018  
column  REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  2120087961  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2120087961?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-10-16  

Database US Newsstream 
document 17 of 376 


Harness the Market to Manage the Climate 
Krupp, Fred.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]16 Oct 2018: A.15. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Harness+the+Market+to+Manage+the+Climate&title=Wall+Street+J 10-16&volume=&issue=&spage=A.15&au=Krupp%2C+Fred&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Last week gave the world a ghastly climate show-and-tell. First came the new report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, confirming that our climate is already changing rapidly and telling us we have a dozen years to act if we are to manage the risk of ecological and economic devastation. Then Hurricane Michael came ashore in Florida after growing from Category 2 to Category 4 in less than 24 hours -- showing one reason scientists are so concerned. 
Because of the problem's severity, some say we need a command-and-control solution, with governments telling companies how to retool. Climate change is an urgent problem, but that's not the right approach. The world instead should harness the marketplace -- the most powerful force available. Here are three policies that would help: 
-- Slow deforestation and restore damaged forests. Properly managed woodlands help avoid emissions by not burning the trees and also draw carbon dioxide from the atmosphere through photosynthesis. Forests could deliver a quarter or more of the carbon emissions reductions needed by 2030 -- but only if rain forests are more valuable alive than dead. California is considering a proposal to create incentives that enable this while setting the global standard for social and environmental safeguards. My organization, the Environmental Defense Fund, is also working with landowners on strategies that allow them to contribute to the solution and profit from it. 
-- Cut short-term climate pollutants such as methane. These gases stay in the atmosphere for less time than carbon dioxide but trap far more heat while there. Methane, the chief component of natural gas, is responsible for a quarter of all current warming. The largest industrial source of methane pollution is the global oil-and-gas industry, so EDF is launching a satellite to measure and map these emissions world-wide. Our goal is a 45% reduction in methane pollution from oil and gas by 2025. This would deliver the same climate benefit over the next 20 years as closing about one-third of the world's coal-fired power plants. 
-- Stop letting companies pollute for free. In most of the world, there is no economic incentive for corporations to reduce pollution. But if they had to pay every time they put a ton of emissions into the atmosphere, they'd find creative ways to reduce pollution. By itself, a tax on pollution doesn't guarantee reductions, so any carbon pricing policy must include enforceable limits to ensure emissions are cut as much as the science demands. As the work of the Nobel Prize-winning economist William Nordhaus makes clear, pricing carbon is a much cheaper way of hitting climate goals than command-and-control regulations. 
Scientists, investors and philanthropists also are exploring ways to remove carbon dioxide directly from the atmosphere. It's a challenge, but a system that pays a bounty for carbon soaked out of the sky would spur a race to develop and commercialize this promising concept. 
Some people would get rich, and that's OK. If videogames and iPhone apps can create wealth, so can saving the world. 
Mr. Krupp is president of the Environmental Defense Fund. 
(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: Using Markets to Manage Climate Change?" -- WSJ Oct. 22, 2018) 
Credit: By Fred Krupp 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject 	Gases; 
Emissions; 

Carbon dioxide; 
Coal-fired power plants; 
Climate change; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Pollution; 

Natural gas 


Location 	California; Florida 
People 	Nordhaus, William; Krupp, Fred 
Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Defense Fund 

NAICS: 541720, 813312; 


Name: Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change NAICS: 541712, 928120 
Title  Harness the Market to Manage the Climate  
Author  Krupp, Fred  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.15  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Oct 16, 2018  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  2120087838  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2120087838?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-10-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 18 of 376 


Business News: Oil Industry Bets on Natural Gas 
Kent, Sarah; McFarlane, Sarah.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]10 Oct 2018: B.3. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Business+News%3A+Oil+Industry+Bets+on+Natural+Gas&title=Wall+S 10-10&volume=&issue=&spage=B.3&au=Kent%2C+Sarah%3BMcFarlane%2C+Sarah&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Oil companies are betting on natural gas as the fuel of the future -- and working hard to ensure new projects deliver profits of the future. 
Royal Dutch Shell PLC last week announced a liquefied natural gas project in Canada that will cost $14 billion, while Exxon Mobil Corp. and partners are expected to approve a multibillion-dollar LNG project in Mozambique in 2019. That is a similar timeline to Russia's roughly $20 billion Arctic LNG-2 project, which is part-owned by France's Total SA. 
Natural-gas projects historically have delivered lower returns than oil projects, leading companies and shareholders to prioritize oil developments. 
According to Edinburgh, Scotland-based consultancy Wood Mackenzie, the weighted average internal rate of return for liquefied-natural-gas projects currently in the pipeline is about 13%. That compares with 20% for deep-water projects and 51% for unconventional oil developments like shale. 
"The problem for oil companies is that gas is much more difficult to make profitable," said Eirik Waerness, chief economist at Norwegian oil company Equinor ASA, formerly known as Statoil. 
The case for gas also becomes even more difficult, at least in the short term, when oil prices are high, as they have been recently, though oil companies invest on a long-term horizon. 
Yet oil firms have little choice but to double down on gas. Companies have discovered fewer large new oil deposits than natural-gas opportunities over the past decade. Governments, including China and many in Europe, want to reduce pollution by burning cleaner fuels for transport and electricity. A new natural gas power plant emits around half the carbon dioxide emitted by a new coal or fuel-oil plant. 
Oil consumption is expected to rise by 0.5% a year out to 2040, according to Wood Mackenzie, substantially slower than in previous decades. Some forecasts say demand could stop growing altogether within the next decade. 
Natural-gas consumption, though, is expected to rise to 24% of the world's energy mix by 2040, from 22% in 2016, according to the International Energy Agency. LNG's share of that market is set to rise to almost 40% in 2023, from around a third in 2017, the IEA forecast. 
By 2025, both Shell and BP PLC will be producing more gas than oil. French giant Total's production is near 50-50 split. Exxon is also planning significant new investments in LNG. 
"It's all a balancing act," said Brian Youngberg, senior energy analyst at brokerage Edward Jones. "At the end of the day, oil is the most profitable product they produce, but demand is going to slow so you need to start managing that transition." 
At the same time, oil companies are considering efforts to curb global warming that could make lower-carbon natural gas more competitive. Policies like a substantial price on carbon "moves the dial on gas," Mr. Waerness said. 
Oil companies are selling the strategic shift as a smart bet on a growing market. 
"The good news is that the natural-gas market will continue to grow, and this explains why we are aggressive, offensive and expanding," Total CEO Patrick Pouyanne told investors last month. "On the contrary, the oil market will stabilize and even decline." 
Investors have embraced the strategy, with some reservations. Big gas projects generate lower returns, but they are profitable and provide much more stable long-term cash flow than most oil developments. And internal rate of return is just one measure. Many big gas projects offer opportunities for profit-generation through trading and business integration. 
The natural-gas projects provide "very stable and consistent cash flow and this is something oil-and-gas companies have never really had, and what has made them so cyclical," said Richard Hulf, a manager of the Global Energy Fund at Artemis Fund Managers. 
Yet the dash for gas highlights broader risks in an age of lower-carbon energy and an eventual shift away from fossil fuels altogether. 
Investment in renewable energy for electricity generation is already outpacing fossil fuels globally, driven by falling costs of producing wind and solar power. More than half of power-generating capacity added in recent years has been in renewable sources, according to the IEA. 
The moves point to the potential for a more sober oil-and-gas industry, less prone to dramatic slumps yet with equally less promise to reach heady peaks. "You will see lower return on investments for some of these [gas] projects," said Espen Erlingsen, a partner at Norwegian consultancy Rystad Energy."I guess that's something they have to live with." 
Credit: By Sarah Kent and Sarah McFarlane 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject  Fossil fuels; Carbon; Energy; LNG; Cash flow; Natural gas utilities  
Location  Mozambique; Russia; Arctic region; Canada; Scotland; China; France; Europe  
People  Pouyanne, Patrick  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Royal Dutch Shell PLC 213112, 221210, 324110;  
Name: NAICS:  Total SA 211111, 324110, 447190;  
Name: NAICS:  BP PLC 211111, 324110, 447110;  
Name: NAICS:  Equinor ASA 324110;  
Name: NAICS:  Exxon Mobil Corp 211111, 447110;  
Name: NAICS:  International Energy Agency 541720, 926130, 928120;  
Name: NAICS:  Edward D Jones & Co 523120  
Title  Business News: Oil Industry Bets on Natural Gas  
Author  Kent, Sarah; McFarlane, Sarah  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.3  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Oct 10, 2018  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  

ProQuest document ID  2117309746  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2117309746?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-10-10  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 19 of 376 


A Nobel Economics Prize for the Long Run 
Henderson, David R.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]09 Oct 2018: A.17. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=A+Nobel+Economics+Prize+for+the+Long+Run&title=Wall+Street+J 10-09&volume=&issue=&spage=A.17&au=Henderson%2C+David+R&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
The winners of this year's Nobel Memorial Prize in Economics are U.S. economists William D. Nordhaus of Yale and Paul M. Romer of New York University. Mr. Nordhaus is acknowledged for "integrating climate change into long-run macroeconomic analysis," while Mr. Romer is credited with "integrating technological innovations into long-run macroeconomic analysis." 
What is meant by "long-run macroeconomic analysis," the common element in both awards? Largely, the term refers to projections of economic growth. Growth isn't the only focus of macroeconomic analysis; short-term ups and downs in the economy, known as the "business cycle," are considered part of the same field. But growth is by far the more important factor in economic health. Consider that the anguish of the Great Depression was caused by a 30% drop in U.S. gross domestic product, but real GDP today is 14 times its level in 1929. Over periods of a decade or more, the effect of growth dominates the effect of even the most serious recessions. 
For that reason, it makes sense for economists to focus on long-run growth, as Messrs. Romer and Nordhaus have done. 
In the 1980s, Mr. Romer was the lead developer of endogenous-growth theory, which proposes that growth results from factors that exist within -- or are "endogenous" to -- a given economy. Before this breakthrough, researchers' preferred model of growth was one developed in the 1950s by Massachusetts Institute of Technology economist Robert Solow. Though Mr. Solow acknowledged that technological progress was a key driver of economic growth, he had no way to project the pace or impact of such progress: it was "exogenous" to his model. Mr. Romer made technology endogenous. In particular, he noted that there are incentives within an economic system to come up with new ideas, and he urged policy makers to think carefully about how to structure such incentives. 
Patents are an old example of an effective economic incentive. Consider the pharmaceutical industry. A 2014 Tufts study estimated that it costs an average of $2.6 billion to develop a new drug and market it successfully. Once the formula is discovered and tested, another company could copy the invention of the firm that did all the work. If that second company were allowed to sell the drug, the first one probably wouldn't do the work in the first place. A patent gives the inventor a monopoly for a fixed number of years during which it can charge a monopoly price and earn the returns necessary to motivate it to innovate. 
In a 2006 article on economic growth, Mr. Romer noted the huge difference in long-run well being that would result from raising the growth rate by a few percentage points. He cites the "rule of 72," which holds that the length of time over which a magnitude doubles can be found by dividing the growth rate into 72. So, for example, an economy that grows 2% a year will take 36 years to double in size, while one that grows 4% a year will double in 18 years. 
Mr. Nordhaus also has made multiple contributions to economic literature on growth. In the citation for his award, the Nobel committee didn't mention his demonstration that the price of light has fallen by many orders of magnitude over the last 200 years. He showed that the price of light in 1992, adjusted for inflation, was less than 0.1% of its price in 1800. The failure of government analysts to account fully for this and similar price reductions, he argued, led them to underestimate the real growth rate of the economy and wages. 
What earned Mr. Nordhaus his Nobel, though, was his work on the economics of global warming. Starting in the 1970s, he constructed increasingly comprehensive models of the interaction between the economy and additions of carbon dioxide to the atmosphere. Economists use these models, along with assumptions about the current and future magnitude of emissions, to compute the "social cost of carbon." Mr. Nordhaus has subsequently used this cost to recommend taxes on carbon. In 2017 he computed the optimal tax to be $30 for each ton of carbon dioxide. Such a carbon tax would increase the price of gasoline by about 27 cents a gallon. 
Mr. Nordhaus recently noted the large degree of uncertainty about the optimal tax. For the $30 tax above, the actual optimal tax could be as little as $6 a ton, or as much as $93. 
Robert P. Murphy, an economist at Texas Tech, used Mr. Nordhauss work to show that setting too high a carbon tax can be worse than setting no carbon tax at all. Using Mr. Nordhauss 2009 calibration, Mr. Murphy calculated the present value of damages caused by carbon dioxide and abatement costs at $22.6 trillion. Mr. Nordhauss optimal carbon tax would have reduced damages but increased abatement costs, decreasing the impact of emissions to a total of $19.5 trillion -- a relatively minor net improvement of just over $3 trillion. 
Meanwhile, the Nordhaus model shows that the cost of a policy to limit the temperature increase to only 2.7 degrees Fahrenheit by 2100 would have been $37.03 trillion -­$16.4 trillion more than the cost of doing nothing after accounting for the damage done by carbon emissions. Thus, Mr. Nordhaus's work doesn't support the recent announcement by the International Panel on Climate Change about the urgent need to limit warming to 2.7 degrees. Indeed, Paul Krugman castigated Mr. Nordhaus in 2013 for his belief that the optimal temperature increase is 4.1 degrees. 
Interestingly, neither Mr. Nordhaus nor anyone else anticipated fracking, which has increased natural-gas usage at the expense of coal. The result is that the U.S. has cut its carbon-dioxide output year after year without the aid of a carbon tax. 
It's refreshing to see the Nobel Prize awarded to economists who study growth. It makes sense to worry about short-term fluctuations in GDP, but it makes even more sense to keep our eyes on what matters much more: long-term growth and the policies that favor it. 
Mr. Henderson, a research fellow with the Hoover Institution at Stanford University, is editor of the Concise Encyclopedia of Economics. 
(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: The Economy and Long-Term Common Weal" -- WSJ Oct. 16, 2018) 
Credit: By David R. Henderson 

(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject  Economists; Emissions; Inventors; Economic growth; Carbon dioxide; Environmental tax; Macroeconomics; Costs; Growth rate; Economic models; Nobel prizes; Climate change; Gross Domestic Product--GDP; Economics  
Location  Texas; Massachusetts; New York; United States--US  
People  Krugman, Paul  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Hoover Institution on War Revolution & Peace 541720;  
Name: NAICS:  Massachusetts Institute of Technology 611310;  
Name: NAICS:  New York University 611310;  
Name: NAICS:  Stanford University 611310  
Title  A Nobel Economics Prize for the Long Run  
Author  Henderson, David R  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.17  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Oct 9, 2018  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  

Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  2117060033  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2117060033?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2019-10-14  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 20 of 376 


Time to Put Down the Bong, Elon 
Jenkins, Holman W, Jr.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]29 Sep 2018: A.13. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Time+to+Put+Down+the+Bong%2C+Elon&title=Wall+Street+Journa 09-29&volume=&issue=&spage=A.13&au=Jenkins%2C+Holman+W%2C+Jr&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Fifty-one days was quick work by the Securities and Exchange Commission, especially since it reportedly included reaching a negotiated settlement with defendant Elon Musk that would have curbed his authority but allowed him to remain in leadership at Tesla. At some point, we'll hear why at the last minute he rejected the deal. In the meantime, nothing about the episode necessarily will allay the fears of those who suspect Mr. Musk makes decisions while on grass. 
Yet the pillars of his defense may be stronger than many think. No, a price wasn't discussed with potential buyout backers, but his Saudi inquisitors reportedly had agreed in advance to any "reasonable" price -- which Mr. Musk will argue his tweeted $420 was. 
His tweet that only shareholder approval stood in the way of consummating a deal could be interpreted broadly enough to encompass the unmentioned difficulties involved in structuring a transaction that small shareholders could participate in. 
Juries sometimes enjoy siding with celebrity CEOs over the government. Plus, by not settling, Mr. Musk may hope to complicate a separate SEC action against his company as well as a pending criminal investigation by the U.S. attorney's office. 
The bigger question concerns the future of Tesla. I've made clear what I think about Mr. Musk's green BS, the difficulties attending his business model, his reliance on public subsidies, and the unspoken expectation that a draconian regulatory crackdown on fossil fuels will guarantee his success. 
Tesla believers have nobody to blame but themselves for a Tesla stock bubble they created. But I don't have a dog in this fight the way some of my short-seller readers do. I don't need the company to fail to feel vindicated. I will feel equally vindicated and much happier if Mr. Musk can straighten up and generate authentic profits based on the market that clearly exists for electric cars among swells and enthusiasts. 
That said, an escapist gestalt seems to permeate Mr. Musk's recent behavior. Some of history's biggest gamblers knew their luck was over before the world cottoned on. Is he one? 
The green-policy bubble is bursting. President Obama's policies made no sense in cost-benefit terms; his rationale -- that other countries would follow in adopting high-cost policies of no benefit if the U.S. did -- had been debunked by his own regulatory czar before Mr. Obama ever took office. 
Germany is burning more coal than ever. China already puts out more greenhouse gases than the U.S. and Europe combined. The personal vehicles used by you and me were never a big enough part of the problem that they afforded governments any leverage over global warming. If such a problem exists, it will be addressed meaningfully in very different ways than those now holding favor. 
In the meantime, the world's politicians have settled for a ditsy gesture that pollutes the market for Tesla's cars. In most major markets, establishment auto makers now are effectively required make and sell electric vehicle at a loss while continuing to churn out profitable gasoline-powered cars. 
Mr. Musk's preoccupation with short sellers, so clearly a factor in the current debacle, is a distraction from the unfavorable realities that face his company, which will not be solved by conjuring up a private buyout at a high price. 
There is no battery breakthrough in the offing that will solve the range and recharge-time issues that make electric cars an expensive impracticality for a majority of drivers. There will be no climate-policy spasm banning gasoline. Mr. Musk's insistence that Tesla is done going back to the market for capital is a mute acknowledgment that the market may no longer be willing. 
It will take a more creative financial mind than mine to guess whether he can backpedal to a more sustainable ambition. Tesla might survive and prosper building high-end fashion items for people for whom spending $100,000 on a car is equivalent to deciding to see a Broadway show or buy a fancy pair of sneakers. All-important, though, will be making sure Tesla does not become the new spelling of Enron in the public mind. 
Even with the SEC suing to remove its visionary chief, Tesla is still worth $45 billion in the market. That's about $204,000 per car it expects to sell in 2018, compared to $4,900 per car for GM and $20,000 per car for BMW, both of which produce cars at a profit. 
In other words, Tesla is still valued as if tomorrow's expected profits won't be coming from the car business but from some Musk magic yet to be revealed. Blame Mr. Musk's Wall Street cheerleaders for fostering this illusion, not the SEC if its action this week finally deflates the Musk bubble. 
The hardest thing for Tesla to survive may be the repricing of its shares in line with its real prospects, even if those prospects include becoming a stable and profitable auto manufacturer. 
Credit: By Holman W. Jenkins, Jr. 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject  Automobiles;  
Electric vehicles  
Location  China; United States--US; Germany; Europe  
People  Musk, Elon; Obama, Barack  
Company / organization  Name: Securities & Exchange Commission  
NAICS: 926150  
Title  Time to Put Down the Bong, Elon  
Author  Jenkins, Holman W, Jr  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.13  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Sep 29, 2018  
column  Business World  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  2113712853  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2113712853?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-10-12  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 21 of 376 


Business News: Oil Firms Pledge to Cut Emissions 
Kent, Sarah.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]25 Sep 2018: B.7. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Business+News%3A+Oil+Firms+Pledge+to+Cut+Emissions&title=Wall+ 09-25&volume=&issue=&spage=B.7&au=Kent%2C+Sarah&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
A coalition of the world's biggest oil companies promised Monday to reduce methane emissions from natural gas extraction -- part of an effort to shore up the climate credentials of the hydrocarbon. 
The Oil and Gas Climate Initiative, an industry group that counts oil giants like Exxon Mobil Corp., Royal Dutch Shell PLC and Saudi Arabia's state oil giant, Aramco, among its members, said it would target reducing methane emissions to less than 0.25% of the total natural gas the group of 13 member companies produces by 2025. 
Methane is the main component of natural gas, but it also often leaks into the environment during production, transportation and processing. Even though it stays in the atmosphere for less time than carbon dioxide, methane is a much more potent greenhouse gas in the short term because it traps more heat. According to the International Energy Agency, one ton of methane is equivalent to as much as 87 tons of carbon dioxide over a 20-year time frame. 
Natural gas production is growing and many big oil companies have held the fuel up as a climate-friendly alternative to coal that can help make the oil-and-gas sector more resilient in efforts to limit climate change. 
A number of big companies including Exxon, Shell and BP PLC have already disclosed their own goals for reducing methane emissions. Shell, in particular, has tilted its production mix toward more gas output. 
"If you're the size we are in the global gas market, one of the key things is to grow the role of gas in the energy sector," said Shell's head of gas Maarten Wetselaar. "If it is to take its rightful place in the energy mix, we need to make sure methane is not something that holds it back." 
There is also a strong business case: At the moment, many big companies don't have an accurate measure of the amount of gas they lose through leaks. By preventing those leaks, companies don't leave money from lost gas sales on the table. 
According to an April report by the Environmental Defense Fund, a nonprofit environmental advocacy group, as much as $34 billion of global gas supply is lost each year through leaks and venting. 
Last week, Shell said it would limit methane emissions from projects it operates to less than 0.2% of the total natural gas extracted by 2025. BP has set a goal to limit its so-called methane-emission intensity to 0.2% by the middle of the next decade, while Exxon said in May that it would cut methane emissions 15% by 2020. 
Credit: By Sarah Kent 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject 	Chemical industry; 
Emissions; 

Energy industry; 

Climate change; 
Natural gas 


Location 	Saudi Arabia 
Company / organization 	Name: Royal Dutch Shell PLC 

NAICS: 213112, 221210, 324110; 


Name: Environmental Defense Fund NAICS: 541720, 813312; 
Name: International Energy Agency NAICS: 541720, 926130, 928120; 
Name: BP PLC 
NAICS:  211111, 324110, 447110;  
Name:  Exxon Mobil Corp  
NAICS:  211111, 447110  

Title  Business News: Oil Firms Pledge to Cut Emissions  
Author  Kent, Sarah  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.7  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Sep 25, 2018  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2111510686  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2111510686?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-09-25  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 22 of 376 


Bets on Coal Pay Off at Mining Firms --- Glencore is a winner as it bought unwanted assets when rivals fled from the market 
Garvey, Paul.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]18 Sep 2018: B.11. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Bets+on+Coal+Pay+Off+at+Mining+Firms+--­+Glencore+is+a+winner+as+it+bought+unwanted+assets+when+rivals+fled+from+the+market&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2018-09­18&volume=&issue=&spage=B.11&au=Garvey%2C+Paul&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Global mining companies that bet on coal are enjoying the best prices in years -- a sign there is money to be made from the industry even as an energy transition to gas and 
renewables takes place. 
Glencore PLC has used rising sentiment against coal to expand its position in the market, scooping up unwanted assets. The Swiss mining and trading giant has a history of 
pushing into businesses where rivals are reluctant to tread. 

So far, Glencore's gamble appears to be paying off. High demand from Asia helped thermal coal prices delivered from Newcastle, Australia, the world's largest coal-export port, more than double since they bottomed in early 2016 to about $110 a metric ton. Export prices from South Africa and import prices into Europe are also at or near their highest levels in years. 
Glencore stock has struggled this year amid regulatory scrutiny linked to businesses in Africa and Venezuela. But its coal division was a big driver in the record earnings it 
recorded in the first half of 2018, generating more than a quarter of its $8.3 billion in earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. 
Even after recent weakness, Glencore shares have more than quadrupled since the 2016 low in coal prices. Shares of global mining firms Rio Tinto PLC and BHP Billiton Ltd. 
doubled over the same period. "Glencore is just generating tons of cash from those [coal] assets," said Jefferies analyst Christopher LaFemina. 

Glencore's decision to expand in coal might look less charmed if and when global warming and pollution concerns cut into demand. 
Other mining companies have shied away from the market. Rio Tinto completed its exit from the coal market earlier this year. BHP has almost halved its exposure through 

divestments in recent years and in April quit the World Coal Association over the industry group's position on climate change. Anglo American PLC has sold off its Australian 
thermal coal assets. 
The diverging strategies on coal show how companies are grappling with a long-predicted transition in energy consumption. 
Recent gains in coal prices are a reminder that timing this expected switch into gas and renewables can be tricky, with mining firms liable to leave money on the table from their 

coal assets. 
While renewables and gas are making inroads into Western power markets that have long depended on coal, emerging markets in Asia remain hungry for large, cheap sources 

of energy, increasing their coal demand. Some in the market say that at least in the near term, the lack of investment in coal mining can offset the impact from softening demand, leading to higher prices. Mark Cutifani, chief executive of Anglo American, said in an interview that thermal coal -- the type of coal used in heating and power generation -- will be strong for the next 
"five to seven years." 
But "beyond that it gets a lot harder to forecast because of the climate-change issues," he said. "We think switching will occur quicker than most people think." 
Mr. Cutifani said that while Anglo American would continue supporting its remaining thermal coal operations, the company was unlikely to make major investments in the sector. 
Mining companies have been very cautious about investing in new projects across commodities broadly, and given the longer-term uncertainties surrounding coal, investments 

in new coal projects have been particularly less likely. 

For companies still interested in the sector, like Glencore, it can be cheaper to acquire unwanted mines from other parties than invest in new mines or expand existing operations. That further slows the pace of supply growth. Credit: By Paul Garvey 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject 	Mines; Investments; Market positioning; Coal mining; Climate change 
Location  South Africa; Venezuela; Africa; Australia; Asia; Europe  
People  Cutifani, Mark  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Anglo American PLC 212111, 212210, 212221, 212234, 212299, 212392, 212399;  
Name: NAICS:  World Coal Association 813910;  
Name: NAICS:  Rio Tinto Group 212112, 212291;  
Name: NAICS:  BHP Billiton 211111, 212231, 212234;  
Name: NAICS:  Glencore PLC 211111, 212210, 212234, 311314  
Title  Bets on Coal Pay Off at Mining Firms --- Glencore is a winner as it bought unwanted assets when rivals fled from the market  
Author  Garvey, Paul  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.11  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Sep 18, 2018  
column  Commodities  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2108088420  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2108088420?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-09-18  

Database US Newsstream 
document 23 of 376 


Trump's Half-Measures Won't Save the Coal Industry 
Tice, Paul H.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]17 Sep 2018: A.19. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Trump%27s+Half­Measures+Won%27t+Save+the+Coal+Industry&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2018-09­17&volume=&issue=&spage=A.19&au=Tice%2C+Paul+H&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Raucous West Virginia rallies notwithstanding, President Trump has thus far failed to deliver on his campaign promise to resuscitate the coal industry. This is mainly for lack of political will in his administration to address the climate-change elephant in the room. While Mr. Trump has rolled back key components of the Obama anticoal agenda such as the Paris Agreement and the Clean Power Plan, these moves were part of a broader deregulatory push, with no discussion of whether addressing climate change is a worthy policy goal overall. 
But actions that at first might have seemed like careful first steps of rolling back the Obama climate agenda have proved to be mere half-measures. The Affordable Clean Energy rule, proposed last month by the Environmental Protection Agency, made clear that the Trump administration has officially conceded the argument over man-made global warming and the need to reduce carbon-dioxide emissions. This capitulation will seal the fate of the domestic coal industry over the coming years and have broad negative implications for U.S. energy policy over the longer term. 
Under the Affordable Clean Energy rule, the EPA will allow states to set their own emissions standards for coal-fired power plants, in line with federal guidance toward heat-rate efficiency improvements and based on a range of alternative technologies. Such a state-based approach would be positive for the coal industry if the Clean Power Plan and similar regulations had merely been anomalous examples of federal overreach. They weren't. Rather, President Obama's war on coal was the extension of an equally aggressive climate-change-driven regulatory campaign at the state level. 
In the early 2000s, there was a concerted push by states to replace fossil fuels by adopting Renewable Portfolio Standards, which require utilities to generate or sell a specified percentage of their overall energy mix from wind and solar. As of this year, 29 states have adopted Renewable Portfolio Standards or a similar renewable-energy mandate. Most renewable-power targets far outpace market demand and are set up to increase over time, with some state goals bordering on delusional. New York, for example, wants to generate 50% of its power from renewable sources by 2030, even though such a goal would require covering nearly 1,000 square miles of the Empire State with wind turbines and solar panels. California recently passed legislation mandating completely carbon-free electricity by 2045. 
Driven by these goals -- and fueled by various government tax subsidies -- total wind and solar power nameplate capacity grew sixfold between 2007 and 2016, the latest year for which Energy Department data is available. Given flat U.S. electricity demand since the 2008 recession, such excess renewable capacity has served to depress wholesale power prices and crowd out sources such as coal that provide continuous power not dependent on weather. 
State utility commissions also serve as gatekeepers for the construction of all electricity generation facilities. Because most states' goals are set in percentage terms, they can achieve their goals both by adding wind and solar to the numerator and keeping coal out of the denominator. 
A decade ago, coal-fired power plants supplied almost 50% of U.S. electricity. Today, the figure stands between 25% and 30% and continues to drop. In turn, domestic coal production has declined more than one-third since 2008, to a level not seen since the 1970s. 
It has been five years since the last new coal-fired power plant was brought online in the U.S. Any utility executive proposing to build another one in the current political and regulatory environment would be taking on significant risk for his company and his career. Utility management teams have so far responded tepidly to the Trump administration's rule turning regulation over to the states. 
While states may be the laboratories of democracy, the low-carbon regulatory experiment will stress the reliability and stability of the national electricity grid. An additional 25% of coal-fired generating capacity is slated for retirement over the next seven years, while a vast amount of new intermittent wind and solar power is projected to come online. The Affordable Clean Energy rule may slow this shuttering process, but it will not change the trajectory of the coal industry. 
The Trump administration's new rule explicitly recognizes the goal of reducing carbon dioxide and other so-called greenhouse-gas emissions, tacitly affirming the Obama EPA's 2009 Endangerment Finding. And by punting policy to the states, the administration has legitimized an array of energy infrastructure assets -- including refineries, processing plants, terminals and pipelines -- as potential stationary targets for overzealous regulators at the state level. 
The first comprehensive Clean Air Act, the foundation of America's modern environmental policy, was passed in 1970 with bipartisan support -- and no mention of carbon dioxide as a pollutant. In the less than 50 years since, judicial and state activism have subjected the U.S. economy to innumerable carbon-dioxide restrictions, with Congress having had no say over the matter. This wave of regulation has progressed unchecked despite the strategic economic importance of the energy sector and Congress's constitutional authority to regulate commerce. 
Along the way, this backdoor process has been abetted by Republican complacency, with the Affordable Clean Energy rule being just the latest example. Absent stronger federal leadership, U.S. energy policy will soon become a hodgepodge of state climate-change initiatives, subject to fluctuation with every local election and administrative ruling, with the economic impact felt by the entire country. 
Mr. Tice works in investment management and is an adjunct professor of finance at New York University's Stern School of Business. 
(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: King Coal Has Had Its Day as Gas Triumphs" -- WSJ Sept. 22, 2018) 
Credit: By Paul H. Tice 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject  Local elections; Regulation; Solar energy; Electricity distribution; Emissions; Clean technology; Carbon; Coal industry; Coal-fired power plants; Energy policy; Energy industry; Climate change; Industrial plant emissions  
Location  New York; United States--US; California; West Virginia  
People  Trump, Donald J; Obama, Barack  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Leonard N Stern School of Business 611310;  
Name: NAICS:  Congress 921120;  
Name: NAICS:  Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 924110;  
Name: NAICS:  New York University 611310  
Title  Trump's Half-Measures Won't Save the Coal Industry  
Author  Tice, Paul H  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.19  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Sep 17, 2018  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  

ProQuest document ID  2104938064  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2104938064?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-09-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 24 of 376 


Business News: Shell Plans Targets on Methane Emissions 
Kent, Sarah.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]17 Sep 2018: B.3. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Business+News%3A+Shell+Plans+Targets+on+Methane+Emissions&titl 09-17&volume=&issue=&spage=B.3&au=Kent%2C+Sarah&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
LONDON -- Royal Dutch Shell PLC said it will announce plans to lay out targets to manage its emissions of the greenhouse gas methane Monday, joining a handful of major oil companies that have made similar pledges this year. 
The British-Dutch oil giant said it will disclose objectives to bring down methane emissions related to oil and natural-gas extraction and transportation. 
Big oil companies such as Shell and Exxon Mobil Corp. have invested heavily in natural gas in recent years and increasingly touted the fuel as a core tool to combat climate change, because it produces fewer emissions than coal, the fuel it frequently competes with in electricity production. 
But methane, the main component of natural gas, is a potent greenhouse gas, and large quantities currently leak into the atmosphere from wells, pipelines, storage tanks and processing plants. Environmentalists and other activists have seized on these fugitive emissions as a problem that must be addressed if companies are going to count on gas as a "bridge fuel" to a cleaner energy future. 
Shell said it is aiming to limit methane emissions to less than 0.2% of the total natural gas extracted from any one project. 
Currently, Shell has no way of accurately measuring its so-called methane-emission intensity across the entire company, but for some of its projects it is as high as 0.8%, the company says. 
The planned targets come even as the Trump administration moves to roll back Obama-era rules aimed at limiting methane leaks. 
Credit: By Sarah Kent 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject 	Greenhouse gases; 
Emissions; 

Natural gas 


Company / organization 	Name: Royal Dutch Shell PLC 

NAICS: 213112, 221210, 324110; 


Name: Exxon Mobil Corp NAICS: 211111, 447110 
Title 	Business News: Shell Plans Targets on Methane Emissions 
Author 	Kent, Sarah 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	B.3 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Sep 17, 2018 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2104937334  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2104937334?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-09-17  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 25 of 376 


New Fuels Bring End of Oil Era Nearer 
Kent, Sarah.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]11 Sep 2018: B.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=New+Fuels+Bring+End+of+Oil+Era+Nearer&title=Wall+Street+Journal& 09-11&volume=&issue=&spage=B.1&au=Kent%2C+Sarah&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
LONDON -- The Era of Oil is coming to a close, but experts and corporate analysts disagree about just when that will happen. 
The time left before global demand for crude peaks is increasingly tightening, according to projections from industry analysts. Two reports published this week point to an end of 
oil's growth within the next five years, far earlier than many in the industry expect. 
Though most forecasts of oil's demise project a long tail, the estimates put increased pressure on big oil companies to clarify how they intend to confront a looming energy 

transition. 

Demand for fossil fuels will peak around 2023, as increasingly cost-competitive solar and wind are buoyed by supportive government policies to displace growth in oil, coal and 
natural gas, according to an analysis by London-based think tank the Carbon Tracker Initiative. 
"It's not a scenario; it's just obvious," said Kingsmill Bond, new energy strategist and author of the Carbon Tracker report. 
Norwegian risk-management company DNV GL takes a similar view in an analysis released in London on Monday. It predicts oil demand will max out in five years, making way 

for renewables to dominate an increasingly electrified and efficient energy system. 
"The transition is undeniable," said DNV Chief Executive Remi Eriksen. 
The aggressive forecasts add to a raging debate among energy executives and analysts over what the coming decades may hold for the industry. Mainstream views have shifted 

from a decade ago, when many fretted over the prospect that oil supply could run out. 
Now, global ambitions to curb global warming, coupled with cheaper and better renewable technologies, are pressuring assumptions about long-term demand. 
Investors are increasingly sitting up and taking notice, demanding big oil companies outline how resilient their businesses are to an energy transition. 
While the industry unsurprisingly has a more bullish outlook on the commodity, even some big oil companies acknowledge a tipping point may be coming sooner than previously 

anticipated. 

Earlier this year, BP PLC said the world's appetite for oil could plateau and then begin to decline between 2035 and 2040, acknowledging that renewables like solar power are 
growing faster than expected. 
Previously, the company had said crude demand would keep growing into the 2040s. Royal Dutch Shell PLC has said if serious global action is taken to combat global warming, 

consumption could peak by the mid-2020s. Both companies look at a range of scenarios when planning their strategies and don't treat such numbers as forecasts. 

"As an industry we will have to deal with radical uncertainty on a scale which we have not experienced before," Shell CEO Ben van Beurden told an industry conference in March. 
"We ignore that at our peril." 
The International Energy Agency -- whose outlooks are often used as an industry benchmark -- has also published scenarios in which oil consumption peaks in the 2020s on the 

basis of aggressive climate action. But its central assumption is still that oil demand will continue to grow into the 2040s. That is also the view of U.S. oil giants Exxon Mobil 
Corp. and Chevron Corp. 
"The oil companies and the IEA think we have decades to go," Carbon Tracker's Mr. Bond said. "This is a real turning point . . . [and] it's jolly soon." 

Within the oil industry, when demand will peak is the subject of hot debate -- Carbon Tracker: Fossil fuel demand to peak in 2023 -- DNV: 2023 -- IEA: 2040 -- Equinor: Around 2030 
-- Shell: As soon as 2025, as late as 2040 
-- BP: 2035-40 
-- Exxon: 2040 
-- Chevron: No peak in the near or intermediate future 
Credit: By Sarah Kent 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject 	Energy; 
Carbon; 
Executives; 
Supply & demand; 
Alternative energy sources; 

Crude oil 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	van Beurden, Ben 
Company / organization 	Name: Royal Dutch Shell PLC 

NAICS: 213112, 221210, 324110; 


Name: International Energy Agency 

NAICS: 541720, 926130, 928120; 


Name: BP PLC 

NAICS: 211111, 324110, 447110; 


Name: Chevron Corp 

NAICS: 211111, 324110; 


Name: Exxon Mobil Corp 

NAICS: 211111, 447110; 


Name: DNV GL 

NAICS: 221112, 541330 


Title 	New Fuels Bring End of Oil Era Nearer 
Author 	Kent, Sarah 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	B.1 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Sep 11, 2018 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 	00999660 
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2101768996  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2101768996?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-09-12  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 26 of 376 


U.S. News: California Enacts Ambitious Energy Law 
Carlton, Jim.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]11 Sep 2018: A.2. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+California+Enacts+Ambitious+Energy+Law&title=Wall+ 09-11&volume=&issue=&spage=A.2&au=Carlton%2C+Jim&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
California Gov. Jerry Brown on Monday signed a controversial and aggressive new law for the state to mandate carbon-free electricity by 2045. 
The Democratic governor went further by also issuing an executive order for the entire state, and not just its electric industry, to become carbon neutral by 2045 and net 
greenhouse gas negative thereafter. 
Mr. Brown admitted that there are huge steps ahead needed to help achieve these goals, including his call to set up a regional electric grid for the West. 
"But it must be done," Mr. Brown said in a signing ceremony Monday morning at the Statehouse in Sacramento. "California is committed to doing whatever is necessary to meet 

the existential threat of climate change. No matter what the naysayers may say, it is a real, present danger to California and people of the world." 

The much-anticipated signing puts California at odds with President Trump, who announced last year the U.S. would withdraw from the 2015 Paris climate accord that has been 
signed by every nation on the planet. 
Mr. Brown subsequently joined the governors of New York and Washington in forming an alliance to continue abiding by the terms the agreement, which has since been joined 

by other states. 

In the ceremony attended by the governor and Democratic legislators, only indirect mention was made of Mr. Trump, who has tangled with the Democratic-dominated state on a 
host of issues. 
"Regardless of who occupies the White House, California will always lead on climate change," said state Sen. Kevin de Leon, who wrote the new law. 
Mr. de Leon is waging a long-shot bid to unseat veteran Sen. Dianne Feinstein in November. 
White House officials didn't immediately comment on the governor's action. The law has been opposed by utility companies, which argued the changeover to zero-carbon 

mandate may not be financially feasible. Other groups have expressed concern over the possible impacts on the access and affordability of electricity. 

"Gov. Brown signed SB 100 despite real concerns about grid reliability and higher costs for consumers and businesses," said Dorothy Rothrock, president of the California 
Manufacturers & Technology Association. 
Mr. Brown signed the bill into law two days before the opening in San Francisco of the Global Action Climate Summit, where he will play host to business and governmental 

leaders seeking to take action on the issue despite the Trump administration's reluctance. 
California is the first large state to set a goal of carbon-free electricity generation under the new law, which passed the state Legislature late last month. 
In a signing statement, Mr. Brown suggested a variety of strategies to achieving the zero-carbon goal, including energy storage, increased efficiency and adjusting energy use to 

when there is the most power available. 

The governor also called for a multistate power grid that would allow California to share electricity with other Western states, which some environmentalists have opposed due 
to concerns the state would import energy produced by coal. The state Legislature this summer failed to pass a bill moving toward that goal. 
"Have no illusions: California and the rest of the world have miles to go before we achieve zero-carbon emissions," Mr. Brown said. "But you have to begin." 
Credit: By Jim Carlton 

(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject 	Electricity; 
Electricity distribution; 
Carbon; 
Governors; 
Climate change; 
State laws 


Location  California  
People  Brown, Edmund G Jr (Jerry)  
Company / organization  Name:  California Manufacturers & Technology Association  
NAICS:  813910  

Title  U.S. News: California Enacts Ambitious Energy Law  
Author  Carlton, Jim  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.2  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Sep 11, 2018  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2101768698  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2101768698?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-09-12  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 27 of 376 


REVIEW --- Play: News Quiz 

Akst, Daniel.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]08 Sep 2018: C.13. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=REVIEW+--­+Play%3A+News+Quiz&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2018-09­08&volume=&issue=&spage=C.13&au=Akst%2C+Daniel&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
1. Jeff Bezos and his wife are making their first big foray into politics with a $10 million contribution to a super PAC that has what aim? 
A. A government that will print billion-dollar bills 
B. Wresting control of Congress from Republicans 
C. Electing more Princeton alumni 
D. Electing military veterans 
2. Theranos Inc., the blood-testing company accused of perpetrating Silicon Valley's biggest fraud, said it will dissolve. What precipitated the move? 
A. Lenders were no longer sanguine about its future 
B. The company breached a key loan covenant 
C. Theranos was indicted 
D. The board resigned en masse 
3. After 20 years of concern about global warming, which of these accounts for the largest share of global electricity output? 
A. Oil 
B. Natural gas 
C. Coal 
D. Hydropower 
4. Sarah Hofstetter was named president of ComScore. What does the company do? 
A. Keeps track of how well communism is doing on social media 
B. Competes against Nielsen in the media-measurement game 
C. Makes high-tech scoreboards for sporting events 
D. Writes the software running the equipment that runs the Internet 
5. In which Asian country did the Supreme Court just strike down a ban on gay sex? 
A. Malaysia 
B. India 
C. China 
D. Vietnam 
6. What's happening to Arabica coffee? 
A. Thanks to climate change, it's increasingly being grown in New England 
B. A blight is killing plants, sending bean prices soaring 
C. Futures prices have plunged thanks to a declining Brazilian real 
D. Consumers increasingly prefer Robusta, leading to an Arabica surplus 
7. What did Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh say when asked before Congress whether a president could pardon himself or must comply with a subpoena? 
A. The president can't pardon himself but must comply with subpoenas 
B. The president can pardon himself but needn't comply with subpoenas 
C. The president can't pardon himself and needn't comply with subpoenas 
D. Kavanaugh refused to answer "hypothetical questions" 
8. A typhoon swamped an important Japanese airport. Then an earthquake closed a second one. Where? 
A. Hokkaido 
B. Honshu 
C. Shikoku 
D. Kyushu 
ANSWERS 
1.
 D 

2.
 B 

3.
 C 

4.
 B 

5.
 B 

6.
 C 

7.
 D 

8.
 A Credit: By Daniel Akst 


(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject 	Presidents; 
Subpoenas; 
Climate change 


Location 	Malaysia; England; Silicon Valley-California; China; India; Vietnam 
People 	Bezos, Jeffrey; Kavanaugh, Brett 
Company / organization 	Name: Theranos Inc 

NAICS: 339113; 

Name: Congress NAICS: 921120 
Title  REVIEW --- Play: News Quiz  
Author  Akst, Daniel  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  C.13  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Sep 8, 2018  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2100755592  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2100755592?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-09-08  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 28 of 376 


Coal's Global Rebound Heats Up 
Salvaterra, Neanda.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]04 Sep 2018: B.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Coal%27s+Global+Rebound+Heats+Up&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn 09-04&volume=&issue=&spage=B.1&au=Salvaterra%2C+Neanda&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Coal is clinging to the top spot in power generation, accounting for as much of the world's electricity as it did two decades ago, despite heightened concerns about climate change and a slowdown in financing for projects involving the dirtiest of fossil fuels. 
U.S. exports of coal more than doubled in 2017 and are set to grow this year, according to the Energy Information Administration. Countries across Asia and Africa are expected to increase their use of coal for expanding power generation through 2040, says the EIA. 
The rebound shows coal's resilience, especially in emerging regions, and recent events suggest the market for black combustible rock will remain strong. In the U.S., the Trump administration has proposed reversing U.S. rules on coal emissions, and countries including India and Vietnam are planning major coal projects. 
Coal accounted for 38% of the world's electric power generation in 2017, putting it at the same level as in 1998, according to a recent report by BP PLC. A revival of the thermal coal market last year helped to lift mining companies' earnings and share prices. Among them was Glencore PLC, one of the world's largest mining concerns. In March, it spent $1.7 billion for coal assets in Australia as part of a bet that demand for coal in Southeast Asia will remain robust. 
Meanwhile, global carbon emissions from coal and other fossil fuels rose 1.4% in 2017 after three flat years. The rise is attributed to economic growth and increasing energy demand in Asia, according to the IEA. Emissions are linked to rising global temperatures and more extreme weather patterns, experts say, and coal is a leading contributor to human health problems. 
The World Bank stopped financing coal in 2010 because of the hydrocarbon's link to global warming, and many international banks are turning away from fossil-fuel projects. Last year, Deutsche Bank said it wouldn't grant financing for new coal mining or coal-powered projects. In July, Lloyds Banking Group said it would stop extending loans for new coal ventures. 
Still, coal plants are attractive because they are less expensive to build than renewable-energy facilities. The cost of constructing a renewables plant is roughly double the outlay of a fossil-fuel facility, experts say. 
Government officials in developing nations, many of whom say they want to curb the use of coal to combat climate change, often face the difficult challenge of doing so without slowing economic growth. That tricky balance is seen particularly in Nigeria, where coal is abundant and cheap yet some 54% of the country's 190 million citizens lack access to electricity. The country has a plan under way to deliver power from coal-fired plants to more of its people. 
Today, Nigeria generates all of its power with a mix of hydroelectric dams and natural gas, but frequent vandalism of pipelines causes power shortages. By 2030, Africa's biggest economy plans to add 30 gigawatts of power, of which about 30% will be produced by renewable sources and about 3% will be from coal. The project will cost about $3.5 billion a year. 
The World Bank approved a $350 million loan for solar mini-grids and other equipment to provide electricity in Nigeria. But the bank has said it would no longer finance projects involving coal -- anywhere in the world. Bank officials say countries looking to fund coal ventures should look to the private sector. 
"I think it's simplistic to begin to separate renewable energy from fossil fuel," said Babatunde Fashola, Nigeria's minister of power, works and housing. "What the world really needs is to achieve a balance." 
There are some 2 billion tons of coal in the country, according to estimates, and economists say putting it to use to spread power could be a boon for the economy. 
Many emerging nations are fighting similar issues, even as more prosperous countries such as the U.S. and the U.K. have reduced the use of coal to produce electricity. 
On the Asian continent, home of the world's largest coal reserves, China and India account for most of the growth in coal use. Vietnam plans a fivefold increase in its coal capacity through 2035, according to the Clean Coal Centre, a division of the IEA. 
Bangladesh plans to use coal to generate 50% of the country's power by 2030, up from 2% today. Like many countries in the region, it is funding its expansion with loans and technological help from China and Japan. Toshiba Corp. and other partners are building a coal power plant and port on Matarbari Island in Bangladesh. The project will cost about $4 billion, with most of its financing coming from the Japan International Cooperation Agency. 
Credit: By Neanda Salvaterra 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject 
Emissions;  
Electricity distribution;  
Coal mining;  
US exports;  
Industrial plant emissions;  
Climate change;  
Fossil fuels;  
Economic growth;  
Coal-fired power plants  
Location  Bangladesh; Nigeria; United Kingdom--UK; Australia; Africa; Asia; Southeast Asia;  
United States--US; India; Vietnam; China; Japan  
Company / organization  Name: International Bank for Reconstruction & Development--World Bank  
NAICS: 928120;  
Name: Toshiba Corp  
NAICS: 334310, 334413;  
Name: International Energy Agency  
NAICS: 541720, 926130, 928120;  
Name: Energy Information Administration  
NAICS: 926130;  
Name: Japan International Cooperation Agency  
NAICS: 928120;  
Name: BP PLC  
NAICS: 211111, 324110, 447110;  
Name: Glencore PLC  
NAICS: 211111, 212210, 212234, 311314;  
Name: Deutsche Bank AG  
NAICS: 522110, 551111  
Title  Coal's Global Rebound Heats Up  
Author  Salvaterra, Neanda  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.1  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Sep 4, 2018  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  

ProQuest document ID  2098962925  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2098962925?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-09-04  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 29 of 376 


S.C., Utility Battle Over Nuclear Plant --- Completion costs weigh on dispute as industry competes against renewables 
Sun, Mengqi.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]27 Aug 2018: B.4. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=S.C.%2C+Utility+Battle+Over+Nuclear+Plant+--­+Completion+costs+weigh+on+dispute+as+industry+competes+against+renewables&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2018-08­27&volume=&issue=&spage=B.4&au=Sun%2C+Mengqi&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
The primary owner of a power plant with two partially built nuclear reactors in South Carolina walked away from the $9 billion project last summer because of high construction costs and delays. Now no one wantsto pay for it. 
The utility overseeing the Virgil C. Summer plant is asking ratepayers across the Palmetto State to shoulder its construction expenses of $4.7 billion, citing a law passed last decade. But local lawmakers are trying to force South Carolina Electric & Gas Co. to pick up more of the tab. 
A federal judge handed lawmakers an initial victory earlier this month, ruling that a temporary state-imposed rate cut for customers could stand. The utility, known by its acronym SCE&G, is appealing the decision. 
This dust-up is part of a larger U.S. dispute over how much public support should be provided to support nuclear power at a time when the industry is struggling to compete with lower-cost natural gas and renewable energy. 
The South Carolina plant and a similar project in Georgia both encountered massive cost overruns that led to the bankruptcy of nuclear project builder Westinghouse Electric Co. 
The company that owns the Georgia plant, which like the South Carolina project also received state support, said earlier this month that it would take an earnings charge to cover more than $1 billion in new cost overruns. 
"What is happening in South Carolina is reflective of how challenging the economics of nuclear power are across the country," said Jason Bordoff, a Columbia University professor who was senior director for energy and climate change for the National Security Council. 
Existing plants across the U.S. are also struggling, prompting new calls for public assistance to keep them from closing. New York, New Jersey and Illinois are putting up public money to refurbish old plants or allowing utilities to charge rate payers for fixes, citing nuclear power as an important source of clean energy. 
Other states with power plants, like Ohio and Pennsylvania, have thus far resisted those efforts. Some in those states argue that the power companies should be left to fail or succeed on their own. 
The same debate is unfolding in Washington, D.C. The Trump administration is proposing a new plan to bail out failing nuclear and coal-fired plants, arguing that grid reliability is a national security issue. 
A decade ago the subject of public assistance for nuclear power was considerably less controversial. In South Carolina the expansion of the existing V.C. Summer Nuclear Station was initially billed as a source of job creation, a producer of lower emissions and a cheap solution to surging energy demand in the coming decades. The partners were SCE&G and a state-owned utility, Santee Cooper. 
SCE&G benefited from a new financing arrangement granted by the state legislature that diverged from how big power projects had been paid for in the past. The utilities would have approval to charge rate payers as the project was built. 
"We didn't have near enough skepticism," said South Carolina Republican state Sen. Greg Gregory, one of the sponsors of that legislation. 
Since 2007 SCE&G has increased the rate charged customers by 18%, according to a spokesman for SCE&G parent Scana Corp. That translates to about $27 a month for residential ratepayers, the spokesman said. Since 2009, it collected about $2 billion to cover interest costs on its project-related debt, the spokesman said. 
One resident affected by the increases was Doris Fletcher, 78 years old, who has a utility bill of $100 to $150 a month. That accounts for 18% of her monthly expenses, she said. 
"I get upset with what they have done to us and other people," said Ms. Fletcher, who lives in West Columbia, S.C. "Because there [are] a lot of people on fixed income besides me." 
South Carolina lawmakers started considering a law to temporarily walk back the rates after an audit of the project highlighting cost overruns and delays became public last September. The temporary rate cut went into effect earlier this month, giving SCE&G's customers an average monthly reduction of $22 in their power bill until December. 
South Carolina Gov. Henry McMaster, a Republican, said he wanted the rates to be even lower. "It is unacceptable, irresponsible, and unconscionable for any South Carolinian to pay another dime" for the abandoned project, the governor said in a letter to state House members. 
SCE&G sued the state to stop the rate cut but a federal judge said it could stand. A state commission that regulates utility rates will set a permanent rate in December. 
Credit: By Mengqi Sun 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject  National security; Legislators; Construction costs; Coal-fired power plants; Natural gas utilities; Nuclear power plants  
Location  South Carolina; United States--US; New York; Ohio; Illinois; Washington DC; New Jersey; Georgia; Pennsylvania  
People  Bordoff, Jason  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Columbia University 611310;  
Name: NAICS:  National Security Council 928110;  
Name: NAICS:  South Carolina Electric & Gas Co 221122, 221210;  
Name: NAICS:  Santee Cooper 221118  
Title  S.C., Utility Battle Over Nuclear Plant --- Completion costs weigh on dispute as industry competes against renewables  
Author  Sun, Mengqi  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.4  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Aug 27, 2018  
Section  Technology  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2093136659  

Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2093136659?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-08-27  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 30 of 376 


Not the Climate Apocalypse 
Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]22 Aug 2018: A.16. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Not+the+Climate+Apocalypse&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=0099 08-22&volume=&issue=&spage=A.16&au=&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Of the Obama Administration's many power grabs, none was more audacious than its bid to regulate coal-fired electric power out of business. The Trump Administration is now proposing to rewrite the rule in a way that honors the law and still reduces carbon emissions, yet it is being portrayed as radical. 
The disparate treatment reflects the double standard toward climate-change policy in the media. Anything that enhances government control of the energy economy and punishes fossil fuels is seen as virtuous, while solutions that defer to the states and don't punish carbon fuels are a sellout to business. How about looking at the legal and energy merits? 
The most notable fact about the draft Environmental Protection Agency rule introduced on Tuesday is its modesty. Rather than dictating from Washington, the rule restores the cooperative federalism of the Clean Air Act by giving states much-needed flexibility to balance their energy needs while cutting CO2 emissions. 
The Clean Air Act directs the EPA to implement the "best system of emission reduction" for pollutants, which the agency has long applied to individual power plants. The Obama anti-carbon crusaders soared over that language to compel states to reorganize their electric grids to favor renewable fuels. 
Their command-and-conscript regime would have forced states to close coal plants with years of remaining useful life and before alternatives could compensate for the lost power supply. New technology required for coal plants to achieve the plan's early emissions targets weren't worth the investment since most plants would have been forced to close anyway to meet later targets. This was the unstated but clear goal of the Clean Power Plan. 
Utilities would have struggled to keep grids stable while consumers paid more for electricity due to stranded coal assets. National Economic Research Associates estimated that the rule would have increased electricity prices by double digits in 40 states and cost up to $292 billion. The Obama EPA rigged its cost-benefit analysis by deeming improved efficiency an "avoided cost" rather than a benefit. 
The Trump plan still seeks to curb CO2 from coal plants, but the EPA will let states take the lead and won't dictate reductions. States will have to develop plans to achieve the "best system of emission reduction" at individual power plants, which the EPA defines as "heat-rate" efficiency improvements. 
Heat rate can be affected by dozens of variables from fuel type to steam-surface condensers and boiler feed pumps. Low-sulfur coal from Wyoming's Powder River Basin is cleaner than Appalachian coal but burns less efficiently and emits more carbon. This is among the many environmental and energy trade-offs the Obama rule ignored. The rule is also agnostic regarding fuel, so states won't be punished if their coal plants use, say, lignite from Mississippi that burns less efficiently. 
President Trump hailed the new rule on Tuesday for keeping his promise to revive the coal industry, while liberals predicted a climate apocalypse -- better start building your arks for the flood. They're both exaggerating. 
Power plant C02 emissions are still estimated to fall under the EPA's proposal to 33% below 2005 levels by 2030, but without the costs to consumers of the Obama plan. The Trump plan also doesn't "roll back" Obama-era reductions since the Supreme Court stayed the Clean Power Plan in February 2016 and likely would have struck it down as an abuse of regulatory power. 
As for the future of coal, the new rule doesn't favor it over other fuels, but it also doesn't punish it out of existence on ideological grounds. Coal plants will be better able to compete against cheap natural gas and subsidized wind and solar power. 
But contrary to liberal lore, smokestacks won't start popping up across America. The Energy Information Administration projects that coal generation will level off in the future as older facilities shut down and are replaced with more efficient and cleaner natural gas plants. The shale fracking revolution is still the biggest market challenge to coal power, and natural gas will still drive the reduction in U.S. carbon emissions. 
The Trump draft will now be subject to public comments for 60 days and will be challenged in court. But its restraint should give it a better chance to prevail than the Obama Administration's raw exercise of political power. Credit the EPA for keeping the President's promise to voters to delegate power to the states and follow the law. 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject 	Emissions; 

Electricity distribution; 
Carbon; 
Coal-fired power plants; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Natural gas; 
Editorials 


Location  Wyoming; United States--US; Powder River Basin; Mississippi  
People  Trump, Donald J  
Company / organization  Name: National Economic Research Associates  
NAICS: 813910;  
Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS: 924110;  
Name: Energy Information Administration  
NAICS: 926130  
Title  Not the Climate Apocalypse  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.16  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Aug 22, 2018  
column  REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  2091022216  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2091022216?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-09-05  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 31 of 376 


U.S. News: Power-Plant Rules Set Up Legal Fight 
Puko, Timothy.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]21 Aug 2018: A.3. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+Power­Plant+Rules+Set+Up+Legal+Fight&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2018-08­21&volume=&issue=&spage=A.3&au=Puko%2C+Timothy&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
The Trump administration moved to overturn Obama-era environmental rules on power-plant emissions, a long-telegraphed action designed to help coal-burning plants compete with natural gas and other cleaner alternatives as a national energy source. 
Andrew Wheeler, President Trump's acting administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, on Monday signed aproposal to scrap environmental restrictions on power plants and leave much of the regulation of the industry to states. The move is the agency's first under Mr. Trump to detail how it will regulate the power-sector carbon emissions that contribute to climate change, and it sets up months of public and legal reviews, and potentially a yearslong court battle. 
Environmental groups are plotting a challenge, saying the proposal at best provides minimal legal cover for a 2007 Supreme Court decision requiring the agency to regulate carbon emissions as a pollutant. They will likely seek to reinstate the Obama-era policy, called the Clean Power Plan, which itself is hung up at the Supreme Court in a case about whether it was illegally broad. 
The new plan recommends a menu of upgrades designed to let coal-fired plants produce energy withless fuel and seeks to eliminate triggers that mandate costly technological overhauls at coal plants. While the Clean Power Plan was designed to reduce greenhouse gases and fight the cause of climate change, the Trump administration cast the regulation as setting unfair rules that coal plants wouldn't be able to meet. 
"The entire Obama administration plan was centered around doing away with coal," Mr. Wheeler said in an interview. 
Coal has long been a primary source of power in the U.S., but in recent years it has faced stiff competition from cheaper and cleaner alternatives. As a result, the ultimate effect of the Trump EPA move could be limited. The agency's own numbers forecast the power sector's coal consumption to keep shrinking under this proposal, though at a slower rate. Coal-industry leaders say they need major changes to how wholesale markets operate to make coal more competitive. 
Power companies have already said they expect to keep up a large-scale shift to cleaner fuels. Natural gas is cheaper today than coal, and its supply is still growing rapidly, while prices for wind and solar keep dropping, too. 
Roughly 40% of the nation's coal-fired power plants have shut or announced plans to close, according to the American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity, a trade group. 
The worst of that fall is past, but the proposal is most likely just enough to help support the industry's stabilization, said Hal Quinn, president and chief executive of the National Mining Association. 
The Clean Power Plan "was a major impediment for our industry going forward in terms of what our markets look like," Mr. Quinn said. "This removes that pressure." 
Mr. Trump's energy team has argued that coal is a crucial fuel source and that its decline is a threat to the ability of electricity distributors to supply businesses and consumers. The Energy Department has made similar arguments in separate proposals to help struggling coal and nuclear-plant operators. 
Environmentalists have criticized the administration's conclusions. Coal emissions from the power sector are one of the nation's biggest sources of the greenhouse gases that cause climate change, and the proposal could increase carbon emissions by helping coal-burning plants to run harder and stay open longer. Coal is also a leading contributor to human health problems. 
Obama-era EPA leadership said Monday that their moves were a careful effort to follow a legal requirement to regulate carbon emissions. Gina McCarthy, the administrator who approved the Clean Power Plan, noted the influence of climate change is becoming tangible -- deadly heat waves and rising sea levels -- and said the new proposal's scaled-back mandates do little to address it. 
"That is essentially a huge gimme to coal-power plants by giving them a free pass," she said. 
While the proposal meets many of the headline demands the coal industry has made for years, Mr. Wheeler, himself a former coal industry lobbyist, denied it is designed to save coal. Instead, he stressedthe effort gives the states authority to make determinations on which fuels should be part of their electricity system. 
Mr. Trump has made support of the coal industry a central part of his platform, embracing donors from the industry and hosting coal miners at the White House. 
"Obviously the president thinks he appeals to his base by talking about bringing back coal," said David Doniger, senior strategic director of climate and clean energy at the Natural Resources Defense Council and former director of climate change policy at the Clinton-era EPA. "But the policies are not going to bring back coal." 
Credit: By Timothy Puko 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject  Electricity; Greenhouse gases; Emissions; Carbon; Coal industry; Coal-fired power plants; Environmental protection; Environmental policy; Climate change; Industrial plant emissions  
Location  United States--US  
People  Trump, Donald J; Wheeler, Andrew; McCarthy, Gina  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 924110;  
Name: NAICS:  National Mining Association 813910;  
Name: NAICS:  Natural Resources Defense Council 813312;  
Name: NAICS:  American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity 813312, 813910  
Title  U.S. News: Power-Plant Rules Set Up Legal Fight  
Author  Puko, Timothy  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.3  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Aug 21, 2018  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2090192137  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2090192137?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  

Last updated 2018-08-21 
Database US Newsstream 
document 32 of 376 


U.S. News: EPA Set to Propose Looser Rules for Coal Industry 
Puko, Timothy.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]20 Aug 2018: A.3. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+EPA+Set+to+Propose+Looser+Rules+for+Coal+Indus 08-20&volume=&issue=&spage=A.3&au=Puko%2C+Timothy&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
The Trump administration is escalating an effort to revive the flagging U.S. coal industry with a planned move this week to replace restrictive Obama-era climate policies with new rules designed to help coal-burning plants run harder and stay open longer. 
The proposed rules from the Environmental Protection Agency would be the latest in a series of reversals of policies the Obama administration adopted to slow climate change. They would replace the agency's so-called Clean Power Plan for the electricity business with regulations that cede power to states. The rules could ultimately lead to more heat-trapping gases going into the atmosphere even as they set parameters to boost efficiency at coal-fired power plants. 
President Trump has repeatedly promised to support coal, an industry beset by a shrinking customer base, competition, falling prices and bankruptcies. 
Plummeting costs of cleaner fuels including natural gas, wind and solar in recent years have driven consumers and power companies away from coal so dramatically they may blunt the proposal's ultimate effect. 
The Trump administration proposal would have to be submitted for a public rule-making process before taking effect. It would apply to the power industry at large, but is targeted at coal. 
Senior administration officials familiar with the proposal say it outlines technology that coal-burning plants can employ to produce more power from less fuel. It would also eliminate triggers that would mandate overhauls at plants, a rollback to encourage coal-burning units to make smaller improvements, which could extend the profitable lifespans of those plants by many years. 
Administration officials say the upshot would be existing coal-fired plants that burn cleaner, and they estimate efficiency gains of about 4%. 
The proposed rules are designed to address what many conservatives and coal-industry supporters criticized as overreach by the Obama administration determined to force coal plants to run less frequently and close more quickly. 
"We don't believe that is our role," one senior agency official said. This "is about doing more with what you have, and then letting the market trends do what they're going to do anyway." 
Environmentalists are critical of those changes. Even if coal plants run more efficiently, the lack of any requirement to adopt the most recent environmental controls means plants are likely to put more greenhouse gases into the atmosphere than they would if the country's grid simply replaced coal with cleaner fuels like wind and solar. 
"The most massive change from the Clean Power Plan here is how little this does to address climate change," said Conrad Schneider, advocacy director, Clear Air Task Force. 
The anticipated legal tussles mean the proposal this week is just one step in a process that may still take years to complete. The proposal will next go for public comment and then likely take months of review to complete. 
Some observers say the legal wrangling could leave the issue unresolved well into the next presidential administration. 
When it completed the Clean Power Plan, the Obama-era EPA's regulatory analysis said about 27 gigawatts of coal-fired capacity might be put in a position to shut down by 2030. But rapid market changes have accelerated the trend faster than many expected, and about 40% of the country's coal-fired fleet is now closed or planning to close, said Michelle Bloodworth, president and chief executive of the American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity, a coal-industry advocacy group. More changes in wholesale markets would likely be needed to reverse coal's fortunes, she added. 
"We're certainly pleased and supportive of the administration rolling back what we thought were harmful regulations," she said. 
Legal Challenges 
Are Anticipated 
Only a few years ago, coal was the country's primary source of power -- and also one of the leading sources of the greenhouse gases blamed for climate change and of 

pollutants, including mercury, known to harm human health. 
That has been central to a decadeslong battle over the EPA's role in regulating how much carbon industrial businesses dispose of into the atmosphere. 

While some conservatives would simply like to eliminate EPA oversight, the Supreme Court has ruled the EPA must regulate carbon as a pollutant under the Clean Air Act. That led to the Obama-era plan, which required states to reduce emissions broadly. 
The Trump administration, with its new proposal, is trying to walk a fine line of minimizing federal mandates while still fulfilling legal requirements under the Clean Air Act. Environmental advocates are expected to launch legal challenges to the Trump administration's rollback, and the new rules are designed to withstand such lawsuits. 
"It's a pretty tight needle to thread," said Bob Perciasepe, who was deputy EPA administrator under President Obama and chief of the EPA's air and water divisions during the Clinton administration. "This starts to send mixed signals to the industry and [likely] creates another several years of litigation." 
Credit: By Timothy Puko 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject 	Greenhouse gases; 
Coal industry; 

Regulatory agencies; 

Coal-fired power plants; 
Environmental protection; 
Environmental policy; 
Climate change; 
Litigation 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Trump, Donald J; Perciasepe, Bob; Obama, Barack 
Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 

NAICS: 924110; 

Name: American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity NAICS: 813312, 813910 
Title 	U.S. News: EPA Set to Propose Looser Rules for Coal Industry 
Author 	Puko, Timothy 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.3 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Aug 20, 2018 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 	00999660 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	News 
ProQuest document ID 	2089774206 
Document URL 	https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2089774206?accountid=14902 
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-08-20  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 33 of 376 


Canada Backtracks on a Carbon Tax 
O'Grady, Mary Anastasia.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]13 Aug 2018: A.15. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Canada+Backtracks+on+a+Carbon+Tax&title=Wall+Street+Journal& 08-13&volume=&issue=&spage=A.15&au=O%27Grady%2C+Mary+Anastasia&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau's Liberal government announced last month it will reduce a carbon tax on industry that is set to go into effect next year. The reason for the backtrack has to do with climate change, but not the kind associated with global warming. 
Mr. Trudeau is reacting to shifting political winds stirred by Canada's investment climate, which has turned stone cold. He faces an election in October 2019, and Liberals will have trouble winning unless investors warm to Canada as a destination for capital again. The question is whether the scaling back of the carbon tax is too little, too late. 
The initial carbon-tax proposal, which takes effect next year, promised to levy companies on 30% of their emissions at 10 Canadian dollars (US$7.66) a metric ton, rising to C$50 a metric ton in 2022. The revision now sets the taxable emissions at 20%. The Journal's Paul Vieira reported from Ottawa on Aug. 1 that "government officials are prepared to tinker further with the carbon-pricing regime should domestic industrial sectors bring evidence demonstrating '[heightened] competitiveness risks' due to developments in the global marketplace." 
Canada's ability to attract capital suffered a setback when oil prices fell hard in 2015. Under Mr. Trudeau, who took office in November of that year, it hasn't caught up. In an April 13 blog post, Jason Clemens and Niels Veldhuis of the Vancouver-based Fraser Institute noted that Canadian foreign direct investment amounted to C$31.5 billion in 2017, down 56% from C$71.5 billion in 2013. The authors added: "Since peaking in the fourth quarter of 2014, total business investment adjusted for inflation -- excluding residential housing -- is down almost 17.0 percent. Private-sector investment in factories and other structures is down 23.3 percent. And investment in intellectual property is down 13.3 percent." 
The causes of this capital strike seem to be taxes and regulation, as more than one business leader has noted. Suncor Energy CEO Steve Williams said in February that his company is "having to look at Canada quite hard. The cumulative impact of regulation and higher taxation than other jurisdictions is making Canada a more difficult jurisdiction to allocate capital in." 
For prospective investors, the business climate in Canada is naturally compared with that of the U.S. Recent U.S. tax cuts, including accelerated depreciation, and President Trump's deregulation push, are increasing the pressure on Canada to step up. In an April interview with the Canadian Press, Royal Bank of Canada president and CEO Dave McKay described the competitiveness problem behind what he called "significant" capital flight and called on the government to address it. "If we don't keep the capital here, we can't keep the people here -- and these changes are important to bring human capital and financial capital together in one place," he said. 
The new carbon tax is only one of the green policies hurting Canada's competitiveness. Ontario has long been the nation's manufacturing hub. But in 2005 the province began phasing out the use of coal for electricity generation, and in 2009 it passed the Green Energy Act, designed to force industry and consumers into renewable energy. The net effect has been skyrocketing electricity prices in the province and declining manufacturing output. 
A May 8 paper by Fraser analysts Elmira Aliakbari and Ashley Stedman titled "The Cost of Pipeline Constraints in Canada" blames "environmental and regulatory impediments as well as political opposition" for delays in the expansion of the nation's pipeline infrastructure. This has depressed prices for Canadian heavy crude, creating a drag on growth, the authors show. Energy company Kinder Morgan recently sold its assets in the Trans Mountain pipeline to the Canadian government because of continuing opposition to its completion by British Columbia and others. 
Elsewhere in Canada there has been aggressive pushback against the federal carbon tax. Ontario, under new political management since June, and Saskatchewan have gone to court to challenge the federal government's authority to impose the tax. Prince Edward Island, New Brunswick and Manitoba have their own proposals to price carbon and are all on record against a federal take. 
In Alberta, where the economy depends heavily on pumping oil, the United Conservative Party's Jason Kenney is the favorite to win next year's election for provincial premier. He has promised to oppose the Trudeau tax. He says he will keep a provincial carbon tax but limit it to "major emitters." 
Canadian Environment Minister Catherine McKenna said last week that the Trudeau government wants "to have the most energy efficient, smart industries here that create good jobs, at the same time do what we need to do to tackle emissions." But Liberals may soon find out that as one of the world's foremost energy producers, Canada can't have it both ways. 
Write to O'Grady@wsj.com 
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service 
Credit: By Mary Anastasia O'Grady 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject  Manufacturing; Emissions; Carbon; Politics; Environmental tax; Prices; Energy; Climate change; Pipelines  
Location  Prince Edward Island Canada; Manitoba Canada; United States--US; Canada; British Columbia Canada; Saskatchewan Canada  
People  Trump, Donald J; Kenney, Jason; Trudeau, Justin; McKenna, Catherine  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Royal Bank of Canada 522110;  
Name: NAICS:  Fraser Institute 541720;  
Name: NAICS:  Canadian Press 519110;  
Name: NAICS:  Kinder Morgan Inc 211111, 221210, 324110, 486910  
Title  Canada Backtracks on a Carbon Tax  
Author  O'Grady, Mary Anastasia  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.15  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Aug 13, 2018  
column  Americas  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  2087497259  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2087497259?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  

Last updated 2018-08-15 
Database US Newsstream 
document 34 of 376 


Pruitt Leaves a Proud Legacy at the EPA 
Melloan, George.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]12 July 2018: A.17. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Pruitt+Leaves+a+Proud+Legacy+at+the+EPA&title=Wall+Street+Journ 07-12&volume=&issue=&spage=A.17&au=Melloan%2C+George&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Scott Pruitt wasn't chased out of the EPA because of his ethical lapses but because he was derailing the environmental left's radical effort to tighten its grip on the U.S. economy. Mr. Pruitt was implementing President Trump's executive order to scuttle Barack Obama's Clean Power Plan, which would have forced sharp cutbacks in the use of fossil fuels, at great cost to consumers and with little purpose. 
Under President Obama, the EPA's bureaucrats became the shock troops of a new "green revolution" -- quite different from the one that revolutionized agriculture. Mr. Trump chose Mr. Pruitt to lead the counterrevolution. Accordingly, Mr. Pruitt scotched the agency's encouragement of "sue and settle" litigation that effectively gave outside lobbyists the power to set EPA policies. 
Further horror of horrors, the president pulled the U.S. out of the Paris Agreement, ending the longstanding collaboration between the EPA and the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Governments throughout the world have already spent hundreds of billions of dollars to meet U.N. goals for reducing emissions of carbon dioxide. Last July, Danish scholar Bjorn Lomborg predicted the cost of implementing the Paris Climate Accord would hit $2 trillion by 2030. 
CO2 is a natural component of the air we breathe and without it there would be no life on earth. The U.N.'s alarms about a CO2 "greenhouse" causing global warming are based on dubious computer models. As the Cato Institute's Pat Michaels and Ryan Maue observed on this page last month, global surface temperature hasn't risen significantly since 2000. 
The stakes are high. Government restrictions on carbon emissions have spawned a large renewable-energy industry specializing in solar panels and windmills. In places where those industries have best thrived, such as Germany and Australia, the result has been unreliable power at sharply higher cost. Germans pay roughly three times what Americans pay for electricity, according to the International Energy Agency. 
The idea that "renewables" are some kind of modern planet-saving technology is preposterous. Other than fire, renewables were mankind's only energy sources for eons. Primitive people built their huts with solar-fired mud bricks. The 15th-century European explorers relied on the wind to fill their sails. "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner" described the well-known peril of being becalmed on the vast ocean with water everywhere, "nor any drop to drink." Modern mariners, with ships driven by fossil-fueled turbines, seldom face that problem. 
It's hardly a new discovery that renewables don't work when the sun doesn't shine and the wind doesn't blow. What is less understood is that even when governments force public utilities to buy renewables, power companies still have to use fossil fuels or uranium to keep the grid up and running when the sun and wind are off duty. So renewable power is superfluous to power companies, but its cost reduces their ability to finance baseload power plants. The result is either higher electricity bills or an unreliable grid. Consumers get punished either way. 
Even the Bonneville Power Administration, a grand government hydropower complex that provides the U.S. Northwest with 28% of its electricity, has been plagued with this problem as the requirement to make way for government-subsidized wind and solar reduces its ability to utilize its system efficiently. Said a BPA statement in January: "Our power customers have expressed serious concerns that BPA's recent pattern of rising costs and rates is unsustainable." 
Matters are even worse in some of the countries where parties of the environmentalist left have been more successful. At the behest of its Greens, Germany shut down not only coal plants but also some nuclear facilities after the meltdown at the badly designed Fukushima plant in Japan. High electricity costs were an important factor, along with the refugee influx, in Chancellor Angela Merkel's election debacle last year. 
Australia's left used to boast that their nation had more solar panels per capita than anywhere else in the world. They said less about Australia's household electricity costs -­also among the world's highest. When South Australia suffered blackouts in the summer of 2006, politicians began to realize something was amiss. Last October, Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull scrapped plans to set new renewables targets, and his government expects to have a new, more reliable, energy plan by next month. It may include such irreligious means as renewed use of the country's plentiful coal deposits. 
Mr. Trump dumped the Paris Agreement to stop the U.S. from going the way of Germany and Australia. Mr. Obama had drunk the U.N. Kool-Aid, echoing the claim that global warming was an existential threat to the planet. His 2015 Clean Power Plan was designed to reduce CO2 emissions from the electric-power sector by 32% from 2005 levels by 2030, notably through greater dependence on wind and solar. 
When Mr. Obama launched the CPP (sans congressional legislation) it drew challenges from 150 entities, including 27 states, 24 trade associations, 37 rural electrical cooperatives and three labor unions, the EPA reported. Taking those complaints seriously, the Trump administration moved to scrap the plan. This will save up to $33 billion in compliance costs by 2030, according to a new EPA estimate. 
Mr. Pruitt's successor at the EPA, acting director Andrew Wheeler, will now take the sniper fire. But consider this: Enviro-shaman Al Gore warned in "Earth in the Balance" that the planet was in imminent peril from global warming fully 26 years ago. Yet temperature readings from weather stations and satellites today show that the earth's sundry climates are pretty much what they were then. Hyderabad still gets very hot in summer, as it has for centuries, and Yakutsk gets very cold in winter, ditto. San Francisco is pretty nice year-round, except for the fog and the politics. 
Mr. Melloan is a former deputy editor of the Journal editorial page. He is writing a book about the costs of bogus science. 
(See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: It Took More Than Green Fury to Doom Pruitt" -- WSJ July 16, 2018) 
Credit: By George Melloan 

(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject  Emissions; Earth; Energy industry; Climate change; Industrial plant emissions; Electricity; Fossil fuels; Carbon dioxide; Global warming; Costs; Coal-fired power plants; Paris Agreement  
Location  Australia; South Australia Australia; San Francisco California; United States--US; Germany; Japan  
People  Trump, Donald J; Merkel, Angela; Pruitt, Scott; Obama, Barack; Wheeler, Andrew; Gore, Albert Jr; Turnbull, Malcolm  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Cato Institute 541711;  
Name: NAICS:  Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 924110;  
Name: NAICS:  International Energy Agency 541720, 926130, 928120;  
Name: NAICS:  Bonneville Power Administration 221111;  
Name: NAICS:  United Nations--UN 928120;  
Name: NAICS:  Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 541712, 928120  
Title  Pruitt Leaves a Proud Legacy at the EPA  
Author  Melloan, George  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.17  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Jul 12, 2018  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  

ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2068237351  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2068237351?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-07-15  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 35 of 376 


U.S. News: EPA Chief Says He Won't Shift Priorities 
Puko, Timothy; Vogt, Heidi.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]07 July 2018: A.3. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+EPA+Chief+Says+He+Won%27t+Shift+Priorities&title 07-07&volume=&issue=&spage=A.3&au=Puko%2C+Timothy%3BVogt%2C+Heidi&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
The acting head of the Environmental Protection Agency said he plans to stick with President Donald Trump's priorities, including changing the Clean Power Plan, de-emphasizing climate-change initiatives and improving how the agency deals with polluters and environmental crises. 
The agency's new chief, the former coal and energy lobbyist and ex-EPA staffer Andrew Wheeler, said in an interview Friday that the agency won't shift from the direction established by Scott Pruitt, who resigned the post a day earlier amid a series of allegations of ethics and spending lapses. 
"If the environmentalists think [Mr. Trump is] going to make promises and we're going to do the opposite, then there's not a lot of common ground to work on," Mr. Wheeler said. "I'm going to continue to move forward with those" priorities Mr. Pruitt laid out on behalf of Mr. Trump. 
The White House on Thursday elevated Mr. Wheeler from deputy administrator after Mr. Pruitt resigned in the middle of more than a dozen ethics investigations. 
Many in the business community and the GOP have welcomed the EPA's direction in the Trump era, after maintaining that the agency under President Barack Obama was excessive in its regulatory regimen and stifled business. Environmentalists cheered Mr. Pruitt's departure and have been harshly critical of Mr. Wheeler, citing his past work for energy companies. 
Mr. Wheeler spent his initial weeks at the agency going to meet career staff in headquarters and at regional offices in part to emphasize how the agency can get better at core Trump administrative initiatives, namely more clarity of permitting and enforcement and better communications with the public. 
Mr. Wheeler also said he would like to ratchet down the political rhetoric surrounding the EPA. 
"You might see a shift in terms of how I talk about some things," he said. "I have thought for years environmental issues need to be depoliticized. In 1991, when I came to town, they were not as politicized as they are today. And I would love to return to that." 
Jeff Holmstead, a former EPA official under George W. Bush, said Mr. Wheeler's decades in Washington and experience with the regulatory process mean he may avoid some of Mr. Pruitt's "missteps." 
"I think Andy will be much more focused in shepherding these regulatory reforms through EPA as opposed to being out and giving speeches and making press appearances," Mr. Holmstead said. 
Credit: By Timothy Puko and Heidi Vogt 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject 	Environmental protection; 
User groups; 

Environmentalists; 
Regulatory reform 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Trump, Donald J; Wheeler, Andrew; Bush, George W; Pruitt, Scott; Obama, Barack 
Company / organization 	Name: Republican Party 

NAICS: 813940; 

Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA NAICS: 924110 
Title 	U.S. News: EPA Chief Says He Won't Shift Priorities 
Author  Puko, Timothy; Vogt, Heidi  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.3  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Jul 7, 2018  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2065265877  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2065265877?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-07-07  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 36 of 376 


U.S. News: Acting Agency Chief Likely to Stay Course 
Ballhaus, Rebecca.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]06 July 2018: A.2. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+Acting+Agency+Chief+Likely+to+Stay+Course&title=W 07-06&volume=&issue=&spage=A.2&au=Ballhaus%2C+Rebecca&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
The new acting administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency is a former coal and energy lobbyist who has expressed skepticism about the human impact on climate change. 
President Donald Trump on Thursday named Andrew Wheeler as acting administrator after accepting the resignation of Scott Pruitt, who left amid a series of allegations over ethics and spending. 
"I have no doubt that Andy will continue on with our great and lasting EPA agenda," Mr. Trump tweeted. 
Mr. Wheeler's elevation from deputy administrator, which was sharply criticized by environmental groups, isn't likely to bring big changes in policy at the EPA. Mr. Pruitt sought to roll back a number of Obama-eraregulations, including water and air rules that affect energy producers, farmers and auto makers, among many others. 
Mr. Pruitt also worked to reduce the agency's oversight powers, including removing its ability to blockpermits issued to mining, real estate and other developers to dump waste into waterways. 
Federal lobbying records show Mr. Wheeler has represented a number of energy companies, including Xcel Energy Inc., Energy Fuels Resources Inc. and Murray Energy Corp., a coal producer that waged many legal battles against the EPA under former President Barack Obama. The company's CEO, Bob Murray, was a top backer of Mr. Trump during the 2016 election. 
Mr. Wheeler filed his last lobbying disclosures in the summer of 2017, about two months before he was appointed deputy EPA administrator in October of that year. Among the government entities Mr. Wheeler lobbied: the EPA. 
Previously, Mr. Wheeler served as a top adviser to Sen. James Inhofe (R., Okla.), who then headed the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee. In that role, Mr. Wheeler worked on energy legislation and Clean Air Act issues. 
Mr. Wheeler is one of a handful of potential or current Trump administration officials with connections to Mr. Inhofe, Washington's most outspoken skeptic of the scientific consensus that human activity is a driving cause of climate change. Mr. Inhofe once threw a snowball on the Senate floor to illustrate his skepticism about climate change. 
Mr. Wheeler, asked at his confirmation hearing about the relationship between human activity and temperature changes on the planet, said: "I believe man has an impact on the climate but what is not completely understood is what the impact is." 
Credit: By Rebecca Ballhaus 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject 	Bills; 

Energy industry; 

User groups; 

Climate change 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Trump, Donald J; Wheeler, Andrew; Inhofe, James M; Pruitt, Scott; Obama, Barack 
Company / organization 	Name: Xcel Energy Inc 

NAICS: 221122, 221210, 551112; 


Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA NAICS: 924110; 
Name: Senate 
NAICS:  921120;  
Name:  Murray Energy Corp  
NAICS:  212112  

Title  U.S. News: Acting Agency Chief Likely to Stay Course  
Author  Ballhaus, Rebecca  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.2  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Jul 6, 2018  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2064634011  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2064634011?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-07-06  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 37 of 376 


Pruitt Resigns Amid Ethics Probes --- EPA chief rolled back Obama environmental regulations but faced pressure to step down 
Radnofsky, Louise.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]06 July 2018: A.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Pruitt+Resigns+Amid+Ethics+Probes+--­+EPA+chief+rolled+back+Obama+environmental+regulations+but+faced+pressure+to+step+down&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2018-07­06&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Radnofsky%2C+Louise&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- Scott Pruitt, the embattled administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, resigned Thursday after allegations of ethical lapses and improper spending overshadowed his aggressive campaign to roll back Obama-era environmental rules. 
President Donald Trump, who announced Mr. Pruitt's departure in a tweet, said Mr. Pruitt's deputy, Andrew Wheeler, would become acting EPA administrator on Monday. 
A former lobbyist for the coal industry, Mr. Wheeler is expected to continue Mr. Pruitt's push to position the EPA as an agency that avoids stifling business investment or opportunity while seeking to protect the environment and enforce environmental laws, after years in which many Republicans complained the agency overreached in its regulations. 
Mr. Pruitt had become a lightning rod for administration critics, fueled not only by his approach to environmental policy, but also a string of controversies involving his travel, potential employment for his wife, his living arrangements in Washington and spending at the agency. 
"I have accepted the resignation of Scott Pruitt as the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. Within the Agency Scott has done an outstanding job, and I will always be thankful to him for this," Mr. Trump tweeted. 
The president stood by Mr. Pruitt for months, despite the growing ethical allegations raised by both Democrats and Republicans. Mr. Trump, a Republican, frequently cited the EPA chief's success in rolling back regulations advanced by Mr. Trump's Democratic predecessor. Mr. Pruitt withdrew an Obama-era rule requiring reduced carbon emissions from coal-burning power plants and was considered instrumental in persuading Mr. Trump to pull out of the Paris climate accord. 
Mr. Pruitt also pushed to sharply reduce the EPA's oversight powers. Last month, he moved to limit the agency's ability to block permits issued to mining, real-estate and other developers to dump waste into waterways. 
Mr. Trump said Thursday that Mr. Pruitt had done an "outstanding job inside of the EPA" but acknowledged "obviously, the controversies." The president said in his view there had been "no final straw" and that Mr. Pruitt had decided over the last couple of days that "he was a distraction." 
As recently as Wednesday, Mr. Pruitt attended a picnic on the White House lawn for military families, along with several other cabinet members, and was recognized by Mr. Trump in his prepared remarks. 
An EPA spokesman, Jahan Wilcox, confirmed Thursday that Mr. Pruitt had submitted a letter of resignation to Mr. Trump. 
In the letter, Mr. Pruitt wrote that it was "extremely difficult for me to cease serving you in this role first because I count it a blessing to be serving you in any capacity, but also, because of the transformative work that is occurring. However, the unrelenting attacks on me personally, my family, are unprecedented and have taken a sizable toll on all of us." 
Mr. Pruitt's work earned him a reputation as one of the most loyal cabinet members and one of the most effective at executing Trump administration philosophy. Mr. Trump in the past referred to him privately as "my lawyer," one White House official said. 
But White House officials expressed increasing misgiving about the scandals surrounding the former Oklahoma attorney general. And he alienated some in the administration by making known his desire to succeed Jeff Sessions as attorney general, should Mr. Sessions step down or be fired, according to a White House official. 
Mr. Pruitt's exit is the latest high-level departure from the administration. In the past year, the president ousted two cabinet secretaries, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and Veterans Affairs chief David Shulkin, and accepted the resignation of a third, Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price. He also removed H.R. McMaster as national security adviser. 
Earlier this week, a former staffer said Mr. Pruitt and his staff omitted, altered or removed from his official calendar potentially controversial meetings and phone calls, some with industry executives. Such changes could be considered an illegal falsification of government records. 
In mid-June, the federal government's ethics watchdog pushed the EPA's in-house investigators to expand and accelerate their inquiry into allegations against Mr. Pruitt, to include additional claims about Mr. Pruitt's use of subordinates' time to complete personal errands for him, as well as to seek business opportunities for his wife, including as a Chick-fil-A franchisee. 
The EPA inspector general was already reviewing allegations against Mr. Pruitt including those involving travel practices and security costs, personnel moves at the agency and how he obtained rental housing connected to a Washington lobbyist. 
Several House and Senate committees had also been investigating Mr. Pruitt's conduct, including taking extensive testimony from current and former aides. Democratic lawmakers who had been pushing for Mr. Pruitt's departure were swift, and blunt, in their reaction Thursday. "It's about time," Rep. Tim Ryan (D., Ohio) said. 
Sen. Jim Inhofe (R., Okla.), a longtime ally of Mr. Pruitt's, praised Mr. Pruitt's work at the agency but said that Mr. Wheeler had worked for him for 14 years and had "an impeccable reputation" and would be a "strong leader" at the agency. 
Mr. Pruitt rose to national prominence years before he joined the Trump administration. After becoming Oklahoma's attorney general in 2011, he led a coalition of conservative states in lawsuits against the federal government. 
The coalition won major victories challenging some Obama administration policies all the way to the Supreme Court. His suits changed how former President Barack Obama's health-care overhaul works, and he won a stay that put Mr. Obama's signature climate-change policy, the Clean Power Plan, on hold. 
That made him a darling of conservative groups, some energy companies and some prominent Republican boosters. 
A former state legislator and owner of a minor-league baseball team, Mr. Pruitt was considered a climate-change skeptic. He has since said he accepts that climate change is happening, but questions how severe it might be and government's role in fighting it. 
Mr. Pruitt's policies made him a target for environmental groups and liberals before he took office, but criticism grew over how he ran the agency and spent money. 
Heidi Vogt, Timothy Puko, Peter Nicholas and Kristina Peterson contributed to this article. 
Credit: By Louise Radnofsky 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject 	Resignations; 
Health care policy; 
Regulatory agencies; 

Political campaigns; 
Lobbyists; 

Environmental protection; 
Ethics; 
Climate change 


Location 	Ohio; Oklahoma 
People 	Trump, Donald J; Pruitt, Scott; Obama, Barack; Wheeler, Andrew 
Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 

NAICS: 924110; 

Name: Senate NAICS: 921120; 
Name: Chick-fil-A Inc NAICS: 533110, 722513 
Title 	Pruitt Resigns Amid Ethics Probes --- EPA chief rolled back Obama environmental regulations 
but faced pressure to step down 

Author 	Radnofsky, Louise 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.1 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Jul 6, 2018 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2064633594  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2064633594?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2019-08-02  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 38 of 376 


A Climate Shakedown Flops 
Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]30 June 2018: A.12. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=A+Climate+Shakedown+Flops&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=0099 06-30&volume=&issue=&spage=A.12&au=&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
The first wave of lawsuits to make oil companies atone for their alleged climate sins was beaten back this week by federal Judge William Alsup. One hope is that this victory for judicial sanity will stop the tide of litigation from spreading across the country. 
The cities of San Francisco and Oakland sued BP, Chevron, ConocoPhillips, Exxon Mobil, and Royal Dutch Shell, demanding billions of dollars to remedy future environmental damage caused by fossil fuels. The Supreme Court ruled in AEP v. Connecticut (2011) that regulating emissions is the Environmental Protection Agency's bailiwick. But the cities tried to circumvent the ruling by arguing that the mere production and sale of oil is a public nuisance. 
Judge Alsup, a Bill Clinton appointee, rightly refrained from trying to regulate global carbon emissions from the bench. The problem of climate change "deserves a solution on a more vast scale than can be supplied by a district judge or jury in a public nuisance case. While it remains true that our federal courts have authority to fashion common law remedies for claims based on global warming, courts must also respect and defer to the other co-equal branches of government," he wrote. 
The judge also ridiculed the notion that fossil fuels are a public nuisance and even suggested that they have been a boon for humanity. "Our industrial revolution and the development of our modern world has literally been fueled by oil and coal. Without those fuels, virtually all of our monumental progress would have been impossible," he noted. Fetch the smelling salts for Tom Steyer. 
Judge Alsup shrewdly saw through the gambit by Democratic politicians and plaintiff attorneys to loot big oil companies to pad their coffers. Six other California cities and counties, Seattle, New York and Massachusetts have filed similar suits. While Judge Alsup's ruling doesn't bind other courts, his ruling is a sound legal guide for them to follow. 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject  Fossil fuels; Climate change; Litigation; Judges & magistrates; Editorials  
Location  Connecticut; New York; Massachusetts; California; San Francisco California  
People  Steyer, Tom; Clinton, Bill  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS: Royal Dutch Shell PLC 213112, 221210, 324110;  
Name: NAICS: ConocoPhillips Co 211111;  
Name: NAICS: Exxon Mobil Corp 211111, 447110;  
Name: NAICS: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 924110  

Title A Climate Shakedown Flops 
Publication title Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages  A.12  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Jun 30, 2018  
column  REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  2061753049  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2061753049?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-07-02  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 39 of 376 


A Tesla Crackup Foretold 
Jenkins, Holman W, Jr.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]23 June 2018: A.13. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=A+Tesla+Crackup+Foretold&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=009996 06-23&volume=&issue=&spage=A.13&au=Jenkins%2C+Holman+W%2C+Jr&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Before we get to the looming Tesla funding crisis, let's notice that the web still isn't living up to its reputation. Given all the agencies and organizations dying to inform you about global warming, it's almost maddening that one piece of data is unavailable: how much of the global emissions "problem" is caused by cars and light trucks that consumers buy. 
Take the Union of Concerned Scientists. It's happy to tell you: "Our personal vehicles are a major cause of global warming. Collectively, cars and trucks account for nearly one-fifth of all US emissions." 
But the atmosphere does not distinguish between U.S. emissions and global emissions (U.S. emissions are less than 15% of the total). And "our personal vehicles" and "cars and trucks" are overlapping but not identical categories. Most personal vehicles sit idle most of the time. Heavier vehicles used commercially account for just 2.5% of the fleet and 27% of the emissions. Also, it might surprise you to know that U.S. farm and construction machinery and similar equipment (such as forklifts) emits about 60% as much as America's beloved pickup trucks. 
Nobody really knows but the total global vehicle fleet has recently been estimated at 1.2 billion. Even recklessly assuming that foreigners drive big American cars and rack up big American annual mileages, personal vehicles likely account for much less than 10% of emissions. The U.N.'s climate panel estimated in 2010 that transportation in total (cars, trucks, planes, trains and ships) amounted to just 14% of global emissions. 
So it was always silly to imagine Tesla's luxury passenger cars could ever be anything more than a rounding error. Even more so when you remember that electric cars need to be charged up on something, and 68% of global electricity generation is powered by coal, natural gas and oil. 
Elon Musk is not stupid. He knows this. His preachments about climate change, to put a rational gloss on it, were a sales pitch. It added to the considerable allure of his cars, which they also get from being fabulous gadgets, status symbols and eligible for government subsidies. 
In the coming crackup, it will be natural to ask what went wrong. Mr. Musk is an entrepreneur but other entrepreneurs are not Mr. Musk. They live and die by whether their good or service commands a price that can cover its costs. 
Mr. Musk has been able to duck this so-called hard budget constraint for years not only because of government handouts (though those have been plenty) but because investors were willing to continue throwing in new capital despite his failure to generate a profit. 
His recent grousing on earnings calls and other behavior suggests Mr. Musk knows this is ending. But why? When he has missed so many targets, are investors really adamant that he hit his stated Model 3 production goal of 5,000 units a week in June and begin to show positive cash flow? Or is this failure just incidental to their questioning of the unspoken premise of the Tesla project, namely the idea that governments will assure Tesla's success by progressively taking away buyers' freedom to opt for gasoline-powered cars despite their superior utility over electric-powered cars? 
The answer is neither. In fact, the real news is that governments everywhere have decided, perversely, that electric cars will not be profitable. In every major market -- the U.S., Europe, China -- the same political dispensation now applies: Established auto makers effectively will be required to make and sell electric cars at a loss in order to continue profiting from gas-powered vehicles. 
This has rapidly become the institutional structure of the electric-car industry world-wide, for the benefit of the incumbents, whether GM in the U.S. or Daimler in Germany. Let's face it, the political class always had a bigger investment in these incumbents than it ever did in Tesla. 
Tesla has a great brand, great technology and great vehicles. To survive, it also needs to mate itself to a nonelectric pickup truck business. We said as much here two years ago and many readers thought we were kidding. We weren't kidding. 
We'll save for another day the relating of this phenomenon to Mr. Musk's recently erratic behavior and pronouncements. You can find on the web his latest email to his employees blaming a saboteur plus a speculative conspiracy of the oil and traditional auto industries for his company's struggles with the Model 3. Keep your eye on the bigger picture -- the bigger picture is the global regulatory capture of the electric car moment by the status quo. And note the irony that Tesla's home state of California was the original pioneer of this insiders' regulatory bargain with its so-called zero-emissions-vehicle mandate. 
Electric cars were going to remain a niche in any case, but public policy is quickly ruling out the possibility (which Tesla needed) of them at least being a profitable niche. 
Credit: By Holman W. Jenkins, Jr. 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject 
Automobile industry; 
Emissions; 
Electric vehicles; 
Climate change 


Location  China; United States--US; Germany; Europe  
People  Musk, Elon  
Company / organization  Name: Union of Concerned Scientists  
NAICS: 813920;  
Name: Tesla Inc  
NAICS: 336999  
Title  A Tesla Crackup Foretold  
Author  Jenkins, Holman W, Jr  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.13  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Jun 23, 2018  
column  Business World  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary, Opinions  
ProQuest document ID  2058159468  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2058159468?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2019-03-18  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 40 of 376 


U.S. News: U.S. Watch 
Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]22 June 2018: A.5. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+U.S.+Watch&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=0099966 06-22&volume=&issue=&spage=A.5&au=&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
COURTS Judge Rules Against Bureau's Structure A federal judge in New York ruled Thursday that the structure of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is unconstitutional, diverging from an appeals-court decision in 
January that affirmed its composition. 
The judge, dealing a blow to advocates of a strong and independent CFPB, removed the bureau as a plaintiff in a case involving an alleged scheme to defraud 9/11 first responders with illnesses and football players with brain injuries out of their financial payouts. The case was brought by the CFPB and the New York attorney general's office against New Jersey lender RD Legal Funding LLC and its owner, which provided costly advances on 
settlement payouts from victims' compensation funds. 
"[B]ecause the CFPB's structure is unconstitutional, it lacks the authority to bring claims under the [Consumer Financial Protection Act] and is hereby terminated as a party to this action," Judge Loretta Preska wrote in her decision. The judge denied the defendants' motion to dismiss the case, saying the New York attorney general had the authority to bring the claims. A CFPB spokesman declined to 
comment. -- Yuka Hayashi 
ENVIRONMENT Study Finds Higher Methane Emissions The country's natural-gas boom is putting much higher rates of the potent greenhouse gas methane into the atmosphere than government estimates suggest, a challenge for 
efforts to slow global warming, according to an analysis published Thursday in the journal Science. 
Methane leaks are a crucial element of the country's gas boom because raw emissions can cancel out gains made by lowering carbon emissions created by burning other fuels. 
The new report suggests using more gas does have major benefits at limiting climate change over 100 years, but may not help in the short term. 
That is because leaks and unplanned plumes vented from storage tanks and processing plants are likely larger than previously realized. They appear big enough to make a shift 

from coal to gas effectively meaningless over a 20-year time span, the study found. 

The assessment estimates the U.S. energy industry is leaking about 2.3% of all the gas it produces directly into the atmosphere, meaning that enough greenhouse gasses are 
coming from the gas industry to equal roughly the 20-year climate impact from all the coal-fired power plants running nationwide in 2015. 
-- Timothy Puko 

(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject 	Coal-fired power plants; 
Attorneys general; 
Emissions; 

Industrial plant emissions; 

Climate change; 
Natural gas 


Location  United States--US; New York; New Jersey  
Company / organization  Name: Consumer Financial Protection Bureau  
NAICS: 926150  
Title  U.S. News: U.S. Watch  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.5  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Jun 22, 2018  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2057784867  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2057784867?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-06-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 41 of 376 


The Social Benefits of Fossil Fuels Far Outweigh the Costs 
Bast, Joseph L; Ferrara, Peter.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]18 June 2018: A.17. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=The+Social+Benefits+of+Fossil+Fuels+Far+Outweigh+the+Costs&title= 06-18&volume=&issue=&spage=A.17&au=Bast%2C+Joseph+L%3BFerrara%2C+Peter&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
As several cities continue their suit against oil companies, The People of the State of California v. BP, Judge William Alsup has boiled the case down to its pivotal question. In March he ordered the legal counsels of both parties to help him weigh "the large benefits that have flowed from the use of fossil fuels" against the possibility that such fuels may be causing global warming. 
We sent the judge, and posted online, a 24-page document that answers his question. The benefits of oil, coal and gas are rarely acknowledged by environmental activists, who seek to regulate and tax these fuel sources out of existence. But an honest accounting shows that fossil fuels produce enormous social value that far outweighs their costs. 
First, fossil fuels are lifting billions of people out of poverty, and in turn improving health. "The most fundamental attribute of modern society is simply this," writes historian Vaclav Smil in his 2003 book on energy: "Ours is a high energy civilization based largely on combustion of fossil fuels." 
Fossil fuels, and coal in particular, provided the energy that powered the Industrial Revolution. Today, coal plants still produce most of the electricity that powers high-tech manufacturing equipment and charges mobile computing devices. 
The alternative energy sources environmental activists favor are generally more expensive. Energy economists Thomas Stacey and George Taylor calculate that wind power costs nearly three times as much as existing coal generation and 2.3 times as much as combined-cycle gas. There is a negative correlation between energy prices and economic activity. A 2014 survey of economic literature by Roger Bezdek calculates that a 10% increase in U.S. electricity prices would eliminate approximately 1.3% of gross domestic product. 
Cheap energy from fossil fuels also improves human well-being by powering labor-saving and life-protecting technologies, such as air-conditioning, modern medicine, and cars and trucks. Environmental activists often claim that prosperity speeds the depletion of resources and destruction of nature, but the opposite is true. As Ronald Bailey writes in "The End of Doom": "It is in rich democratic capitalist countries that the air and water are becoming cleaner, forests are expanding, food is abundant, education is universal, and women's rights respected." 
Fossil fuels have increased the quantity of food humans produce and improved the reliability of the food supply. The availability of cheap energy revolutionized agriculture throughout the world, making it possible for an ever-smaller proportion of the labor force to raise food sufficient to feed a growing global population without devastating nature or polluting air or water. 
Fossil-fuel emissions create additional benefits, contributing to the greening of the Earth. A 2017 study published in Nature magazine found that the global mass of land plants grew 31% during the 20th century. African deserts are blooming thanks to fossil fuels. 
Finally, if fossil fuels are responsible for a significant part of the warming recorded during the second half of the 20th century, then they should also be credited with reducing deaths due to cold weather. Medical researchers William Richard Keatinge and Gavin Donaldson assessed this effect in a 2004 study. "Since heat-related deaths are generally much fewer than cold-related deaths, the overall effect of global warming on health can be expected to be a beneficial one." 
They estimate the predicted temperature rise in Britain over the next 50 years will reduce cold-related deaths by 10 times the number of increased heat-related deaths. Other research shows climate change has exerted only a minimal influence on recent trends in vector-borne diseases such as malaria, dengue fever and diseases spread by ticks. 
Altogether, fossil fuels have produced huge benefits for mankind, many of which continue today. But advocates of alternative energy sources usually manage to omit or diminish many of these benefits when calculating fossil fuels' "social cost." 
Thankfully, President Trump and congressional Republicans understand that the costs of fossil fuels must be weighed against their substantial benefits. They have decided wisely not to carry on the "war on fossil fuels" waged by the Obama administration, congressional Democrats and their Golden State allies. 
Messrs. Bast and Ferrara are senior fellows at the Heartland Institute. 
Credit: By Joseph L. Bast and Peter Ferrara 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject 	Cold; Food; Activists; 
Fossil fuels; Costs; Alternative energy sources; Energy resources; 20th century; Greenhouse effect; Climate change; Coal; Gross Domestic Product--GDP; Tropical diseases  
Location  United States--US; United Kingdom--UK; California  
People  Trump, Donald J  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Heartland Institute 813940  
Title  The Social Benefits of Fossil Fuels Far Outweigh the Costs  
Author  Bast, Joseph L; Ferrara, Peter  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.17  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Jun 18, 2018  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2056331436  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2056331436?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-06-18  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 42 of 376 


Renewables Turn Up Heat on Fossil Fuel 
Gold, Russell.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]12 June 2018: B.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Renewables+Turn+Up+Heat+on+Fossil+Fuel&title=Wall+Street+Journa 06-12&volume=&issue=&spage=B.1&au=Gold%2C+Russell&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Global spending on renewable energy is outpacing investment in electricity from coal, natural gas and nuclear power plants, driven by falling costs of producing wind and solar power. 
More than half of the power-generating capacity added around the world in recent years has been in renewable sources such as wind and solar, according to the International Energy Agency. 
In 2016, the latest year for which data is available, about $297 billion was spent on renewables -- more than twice the $143 billion spent on new nuclear, coal, gas and fuel-oil power plants, according to the IEA. The Paris-based organization projects renewables will make up 56% of net generating capacity added through 2025. 
Once supported overwhelmingly by cash-back incentives, tax credits and other government incentives, wind- and solar-generation costs have fallen consistently for a decade, making renewable-power investment more competitive. 
Renewable costs have fallen so far in the past few years that "wind and solar now represent the lowest-cost option for generating electricity," said Francis O'Sullivan, research director of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Energy Initiative. 
This is beginning to disrupt the business of making electricity and manufacturing generating equipment. Both General Electric Co. and Siemens AG are grappling with diminished demand for large gas-burning turbines and have announced layoffs. Meanwhile, mostly Asian-based manufacturers of solar panels are flourishing. 
In many places, opting for renewables "is a purely economic choice," said Danielle Merfeld, the chief technology officer of GE's renewable energy unit. "In most places, it is cheaper and other technologies have become more expensive." 
Sustained government support in Europe and other developed economies spurred the development of renewable energy. But costs have fallen for other reasons. China invested heavily in a domestic solar-manufacturing industry, creating a glut of inexpensive solar panels. Innovation helped manufacturers build longer wind-turbine blades, creating machines able to generate substantially more power at a lower cost. 
Renewable-energy plants also face fewer challenges than traditional power plants. Nuclear-power plants have been troubled by mostly technical delays, while plants burning fossil fuels face regulatory uncertainties due to concerns about climate change. And pension funds, seeking long-term stable returns, have invested heavily in wind farms and solar parks, allowing developers to get cheaper financing. 
"It is just easier to get renewables built," said Tony Clark, a former member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. "There is that much less opposition to it." 
The sustained investment is reshaping how the world's homes and industries are powered. Last year, the percentage of electricity from renewable sources reached 12.1%, more than double that of a decade earlier, according to a joint report by the Frankfurt School of Finance & Management and the United Nations Environmental Program. These figures don't include electricity from large hydroelectric dams. 
The rise of renewable power generation is raising concerns and sparking a political backlash in the U.S. The Trump administration is weighing actions to subsidize the operation of coal and nuclear plants, arguing that these units are needed for the reliable operation of the power grid. 
The proposal, which follows a request for relief by First Energy Corp., an Ohio-based owner of coal and nuclear plants, would hurt renewables and natural gas-fired plants, which have boomed in recent years as the fuel has become cheaper and more plentiful thanks to fracking. An unusual alliance, including renewable-energy groups and the oil-and­gas-industry's American Petroleum Institute, have challenged whether any government aid is really needed. 
In the U.S., more than two decades of government tax credits, some of which will soon go away, have propelled renewables. About 17% of the country's electricity last year came from renewable sources, including wind, solar and hydroelectric dams, according to federal data. The government said that just under half of large-scale power generation added was renewable last year. 
Last week, Xcel Energy Inc. announced a $2.5 billion plan to add 1,800 megawatts of new wind and solar generation, plus a substantial amount of batteries to store the power. The plan, which needs to be approved by state regulators, would retire 660 megawatts of coal-burning generation and result in savings for consumers, the Minneapolis-based utility said. 
"I think, across the nation, you could get to 40% renewable energy," said Xcel Chief Executive Ben Fowke. "Ten years ago, I would have told you 20% was the max." 
Renewable-energy prices are now competitive with fossil-fuel generation in many places. In 2017, the global average cost of electricity from onshore wind was $60 per megawatt hour and $100 for solar, toward the lower end of the range of $50 to $170 for new fossil-fuel facilities in developed nations, according to the International Renewable Energy Agency. 
The combination of falling costs and large pools of available capital is also spurring renewables growth in developing countries. 
In November, Italy's Enel SpA, a global energy company, won a bid to build power plants in Chile in an auction open to both renewable and fossil-fuel generators. Enel will build wind, solar and geothermal facilities and sell power from the facilities at about $32.50 per megawatt hour, an unsubsidized rate that is lower than the cost of natural gas or coal to burn in existing plants. 
Recent power auctions have suggested that renewable energy prices have further to fall. Earlier this year, an auction in Saudi Arabia awarded a contract to build a 300­megawatt solar facility for $17.90 a megawatt hour. Very low labor costs in the Middle East and India are resulting in record-breaking low bids for solar. 
A Mexican auction last year drew international bids for power at an unsubsidized price of below $21 per megawatt hour. That was substantially below the spot market price for electricity, which averaged around $70 per megawatt hour last year, said Veronica Irastorza, an associate director of economic consulting firm NERA and a former Mexican undersecretary of energy planning. 
"Renewables are going to be able to compete with thermal plants. They will be incorporated into the system faster than I thought five years ago," she said. 
Credit: By Russell Gold 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject 	Manufacturing; 
Tax credits; 
Electricity distribution; 
Government aid; 

Nuclear power plants; 

Competition; 
Natural gas; 
Nuclear energy; 

Cost control; 

Alternative energy sources; 

Manufacturers; 
Renewable resources; 
Coal 


Location 	Italy; Middle East; Europe; Massachusetts; United States--US; India; Ohio; Saudi Arabia; 

China; Chile 


Company / organization 	Name: FirstEnergy Corp 

NAICS: 221122, 221210, 551112; 


Name: International Renewable Energy Agency 

NAICS: 926130; 

Name: Xcel Energy Inc 

NAICS: 221122, 221210, 551112; 


Name: International Energy Agency 

NAICS: 541720, 926130, 928120; 


Name: Siemens AG 

NAICS: 334210, 334220, 334517; 


Name: Federal Energy Regulatory Commission--FERC 

NAICS: 926110, 926130; 


Name: United Nations--UN 

NAICS: 928120; 

Name: Enel SpA 

NAICS: 221122; 

Name: Massachusetts Institute of Technology 

NAICS: 611310; 

Name: American Petroleum Institute 

NAICS: 541820, 813910; 


Name: General Electric Co 

NAICS: 332510, 334290, 334512, 334519 


Title  Renewables Turn Up Heat on Fossil Fuel  
Author  Gold, Russell  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.1  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Jun 12, 2018  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2053202875  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2053202875?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-06-12  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 43 of 376 


U.S. News -- Capital Account: The Losing Proposition of Propping Up Coal 
Ip, Greg.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]07 June 2018: A.2. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News+-­+Capital+Account%3A+The+Losing+Proposition+of+Propping+Up+Coal&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2018-06­07&volume=&issue=&spage=A.2&au=Ip%2C+Greg&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
President Donald Trump's efforts to revive coal mining have been criticized as picking winners. Actually, it's more like picking losers: coal has become a sunset industry as cleaner energy sources rapidly get cheaper. If Mr. Trump succeeds at reversing the tide, it will come at a steep price, in both dollars and lives, most tragically for the coal miners he seeks to help. 
Centuries ago, coal was a miracle material. Cleaner, safer and more efficient than wood, it made the Industrial Revolution, steam power and electrification possible. In much of the world it remains ridiculously plentiful and will be the power-generation fuel of choice for years to come. 
In the U.S., though, coal is headed toward obsolescence. Thanks to the fracking revolution, natural-gas-fueled power plants are now cheaper to build and operate than coal-fired plants. Solar- and wind-generated power cost slightly more than coal when you include the cost of backup power since the sun doesn't always shine and wind doesn't always blow, according to the Energy Policy Institute at the University of Chicago. But as innovation in shale gas, wind and solar continues to drive down costs, coal will lose whatever advantages it has now. 
Energy Secretary Rick Perry last year asked the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to compel utilities to buy power from struggling coal and nuclear stations. Because they store fuel on site, he said, they reinforce the electrical grid against outages. FERC rejected Mr. Perry's request, but last week the White House, citing national security, said it was preparing a new, similar proposal. 
As countless witnesses told FERC, the administration's argument is baseless. Fuel-supply problems account for an infinitesimally small share of electrical outages, and when supply problems do crop up, they are often coal's fault. During Hurricane Harvey last summer, two Houston-area coal-fueled generating units had to switch to natural gas because their coal pile was saturated with rain. 
Meanwhile, propping up uneconomical coal and nuclear plants would cost ratepayers a fortune. PJM Interconnection, which operates the wholesale electricity market serving 13 states and the District of Columbia, would bear $1.7 billion to $11 billion a year of added cost for coal-generated power and $1.4 billion to $22 billion for nuclear-generated power, according to PJM's independent monitor. 
These are just the direct, financial costs. Coal carries huge nonfinancial costs. For example, incorporating the "social" cost of climate change due to methane and carbon dioxide emissions, Michael Greenstone, director of the Energy Policy Institute, estimates coal is more expensive than any other power source, and nuclear becomes cheaper than solar and wind (because while the latter two don't emit carbon they require gas-fired backup power, which does). 
Finally, there is the cost to human life. Burning coal emits soot that even in tiny quantities causes cardiovascular and respiratory illness. 
The miners themselves pay the highest price. Overexposure to coal mine dust leads to black lung disease -- inflammation and scarring of the lungs, which eventually leads to organ damage and failure, and premature death. 
The incidence of the disease fell sharply after federal legislation mandated stricter dust controls in 1969, but is rising sharply again. The proportion of long-tenured miners in central Appalachia with PMF has shot from 1% in 2004 to 5% in 2015, according to a studyby David Blackley of the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, part of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and four co-authors. But that only counts cases picked up by a federal surveillance program. Experts believe many more are being missed. 
Lee Petsonk, a specialist in black lung disease at the West Virginia University School of Medicine, says the disease hits sooner, progresses faster, and is more lethal than 20 years ago; younger miners commonly lose 30 years of life to it. He thinks this is because new mining techniques cause miners to inhale more dust, and more toxic types of dust, such as silica from the surrounding rock. The disease is preventable with the right equipment and practices, and mining companies claim to meet tough federal dust-control standards, Dr. Petsonk says. But the dust-choked lungs he sees in autopsies suggest conditions are getting worse. 
"I've seen a lot of people die from a lot of diseases and this is one of the most cruel ways to go," he says. If work-related illness killed at the same rate in any other industry, he says, "a national emergency would be declared." 
Credit: By Greg Ip 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject 	Coal mining; Lung diseases; Costs; 
Coal-fired power plants; 
Energy policy; 
Lungs; 
Natural gas 


Location  United States--US; Washington DC; Appalachia; West Virginia  
People  Trump, Donald J; Perry, Rick  
Company / organization  Name: West Virginia University  
NAICS: 611310;  
Name: University of Chicago  
NAICS: 611310;  
Name: Federal Energy Regulatory Commission--FERC  
NAICS: 926110, 926130;  
Name: PJM Interconnection LLC  
NAICS: 221121;  
Name: Centers for Disease Control & Prevention--CDC  
NAICS: 923120  
Title  U.S. News -- Capital Account: The Losing Proposition of Propping Up Coal  
Author  Ip, Greg  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.2  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Jun 7, 2018  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  2050846177  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2050846177?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-11-12  
Database  US Newsstream  


document 44 of 376 


Fossil-Fuel Divestment Is Futile 
Tice, Paul H.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]30 May 2018: A.15. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Fossil­Fuel+Divestment+Is+Futile&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2018-05­30&volume=&issue=&spage=A.15&au=Tice%2C+Paul+H&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
The fossil-fuel divestment campaign has made its way from the campus quad to Wall Street. Watch for disruptions at Wednesday's annual meeting of Exxon Mobil shareholders. Climate-change and environmental activist groups have become the ideological driving force behind the environmental-social-governance movement, or ESG, sweeping the investment-management industry. 
ESG criteria purport to promote "sustainable investing" by imposing "social responsibilities" on corporations -- including the responsibility to prevent global warming -- under the guise of fiduciary responsibility, risk management and financial transparency. Because the environmental question relates to what oil and gas companies do, as opposed to how they operate, there is no obvious way for them to comply, apart from getting out of the business. 
That means there's no obvious way for fund managers to comply with ESG activists' demands other than by divesting themselves of fossil-fuel companies. The activists have succeeded in redirecting investment flows away from the coal and oil-sands industries, with crude oil the next hydrocarbon in the crosshairs. 
But fund managers need return performance and portfolio flexibility. That's the main reason college endowment boards have generally ignored student climate protesters. Energy is a significant component of the world's financial markets -- too large, diverse and volatile a sector for major institutional investors not to own. Depending on the benchmark index, the industry comprises between 5% and 15% of the major U.S. debt and equity markets. 
By framing the debate in terms of fiduciary responsibility, the ESG movement is actually sowing the seeds of its own destruction. In the long run, the effort to starve energy companies of capital will only make the oil and gas sector more attractive to investors. 
Consider the following irony: Many traditional energy investors are making common cause with anti-fossil-fuel groups by also advocating for a curtailment of capital to the industry -- including to some of the best U.S. shale-oil plays, such as the Permian Basin in West Texas. Energy-company shareholders are agitating for a shift away from the historical business model focused on growing reserves and production while perennially outspending cash flow. 
Such calls for "capital discipline" are transparently self-serving. In the near term, any cash not put back into the ground through the drill bit would likely be returned to shareholders in the form of dividends and stock buybacks. 
The overriding goal is to jack up oil prices by slowing down drilling activity and production growth. Despite strong wellhead economics, energy stock prices continue to lag and underperform nearly four years after the 2014 fall, due to their high correlation with world oil prices. All else equal, most energy companies and investors would prefer to leave oil in the ground until prices rise. Forcing energy companies to live within cash flow by deferring capital spending helps that happen. 
That dedicated energy investors are now echoing the arguments of the ESG movement should motivate the latter to crack open an economics textbook. The basic law of supply and demand suggests that if the ESG movement gained critical mass so that it had a real effect on the cost and availability of capital for fossil-fuel companies, it would likely push oil prices well above the $100-a-barrel mark, generating windfall returns for energy companies -- and for those investors who resist peer pressure and maintain exposure to the sector. 
ESG-minded funds that divested from the sector for moral reasons would significantly underperform their peers and relevant benchmarks, thereby failing in their fiduciary role. And unlike 100-year climate-projection models, investment managers are gauged by their actual return performance every year. 
Something for the ESG environmentalists to think about as they march toward Pyrrhic victory. 
Mr. Tice works in investment management and is an adjunct professor of finance at New York University's Stern School of Business. 
Credit: By Paul H. Tice 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject 	Stockholders; 
Institutional investments; 
Divestments; 
Fiduciary responsibility; 
Cash flow; 

Energy industry; 


Natural gas utilities; 
Capital expenditures 


Location  United States--US; New York; Permian Basin; West Texas  
Company / organization  Name: Leonard N Stern School of Business  
NAICS: 611310;  
Name: Exxon Mobil Corp  
NAICS: 211111, 447110;  
Name: New York University  
NAICS: 611310  
Title  Fossil-Fuel Divestment Is Futile  
Author  Tice, Paul H  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.15  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  May 30, 2018  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2046474291  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2046474291?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-05-30  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 45 of 376 


California Solar Vote Is Set to Jolt Home Costs 
Ailworth, Erin.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]10 May 2018: A.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=California+Solar+Vote+Is+Set+to+Jolt+Home+Costs&title=Wall+Street 05-10&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Ailworth%2C+Erin&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Corrections & Amplifications 
Among categories of California's power producers, the "other renewables" category includes biomass, geothermal, small hydro and wind; the "other fossil fuels" category 

includes coal, nuclear and oil. The labels of a graphic with a Page One article May 10 about the California Energy Commission's vote on mandating residential solar installations 
incorrectly omitted the symbols for the footnotes. 
(WSJ May 22, 2018) 
California took a major step Wednesday toward becoming the first state to require solar panels on nearly all new homes, the latest sign of how renewable energy is gaining 

ground in the U.S. 

The California Energy Commission voted 5-0 to approve a mandate that residential buildings up to three stories high, including single-family homes and condos, be built with 
solar installations starting in 2020. 
The commission estimates that the move, along with other energy-efficiency requirements, would add $9,500 to the average cost of building a home in California. The state is 

already one of the most expensive housing markets in the country, with a median price of nearly $565,000 for a single-family home, according to the California Association of Realtors. 
Still, the change appears to have broad support from home builders as well as California leaders and solar advocates. 
Nationally, solar power makes up less than 2% of U.S. electricity output, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration. But it is rising because of large solar farms as 
well as rooftop solar arrays on homes and businesses. 

Renewable-energy technologies, in general, are gaining market share in the power sector as their costs go down, along with natural gas, which has become plentiful and cheap 

due to fracking. 
California has often been a bellwether on U.S. environmental and energy efficiency issues, with states such as Massachusetts, Minnesota and New York sometimes following its 
lead. But some experts were skeptical that California's solar-panel mandate would widely influence policies elsewhere. 

Steve Kalland, executive director of the North Carolina Clean Energy Technology Center at North Carolina State University, doesn't see his state -- the No. 2 solar market in the 

U.S. behind California -- adopting a similar mandate soon. 
"It is a pretty big stretch to imagine certainly any Southeastern state following suit in the near term, but the technology is getting cheaper and cheaper and the public is starting to clamor for it," he said. "In North Carolina, the market is much more oriented toward larger scale solar farms." Bob Raymer, a senior engineer at the California Building Industry Association, said the trade group would have preferred California hold off a few more years on the solar 
mandate. But the group helped shape the rule to reduce compliance costs and increase flexibility, he said. 
"Adoption of these standards represents a quantum leap in the statewide building standards," Mr. Raymer said. "You can bet every one of the other 49 states will be watching to see what happens." Severin Borenstein, an energy economist at the University of California, Berkeley, said he thought the state was making a mistake by approving this mandate instead of 
prioritizing larger solar farms, which are more economical. The state's policy will be difficult for other states and countries to follow, he said. 
"Every energy economist I know is shaking their head at this," he said. "In many ways this is setting the wrong example." 
The policy would provide a big boost to California's residential solar industry, which saw a slowdown last year. 
An Energy Commission study forecasts that overall solar demand in California would rise by as much as 15% annually, given that California's low-rise residential housing stock 

increases by about 2% annually. 

But it is likely to create challenges for California as more electricity generation takes place at homes, said Joe Osha, senior analyst at JMP Securities. That is problematic for 
power companies because they have to deal with the excess power coming on transmission lines from residences. 
"This is more bad news and challenges for the utilities," Mr. Osha said. 

The solar proposal, part of an update of the state's energy efficiency building codes, needs final approval from the California Building Standards Commission. But that panel has traditionally adopted Energy Commission recommendations, officials said. 
Shares of several solar-panel installers and makers rose Wednesday including SunPower Corp., which rose more than 6%, and Sunrun Inc. which gained more than 4%. 
"This is a vote of confidence that home solar and batteries are part of the energy future," Sunrun Chief Executive Lynn Jurich said in an interview. 
Francesca Wahl, a senior policy associate at Tesla Inc., which sells solar panels as well as batteries, spoke in favor of the changes Wednesday, saying the company sees them as "a good pathway for the industry to drive down costs," as well as help increase efficiency and provide savings to customers. 
Wind and solar combined accounted for about 8% of U.S. power generation in 2017, up from less than 1% a decade ago. Natural gas is now the top fuel for electricity, accounting for 32% of generation compared with 22% a decade earlier. Coal's share has fallen to about 30%, from 49% in the same time span. 
California is pursuing aggressive policies to reduce air pollution and combat climate change. Solar accounted for nearly 10% of California's electricity generation in 2016, Energy Commission data shows. 
The state already requires home builders to construct residences that can immediately accommodate solar power arrays, while several cities, including San Francisco and Santa Monica, have instituted solar requirements for newly built homes and buildings. 
"To get to a decarbonized economy in California we need massive expansion of solar and other renewable energies," said State Sen. Scott Wiener, a San Francisco Democrat who proposed legislation last year to mandate solar on rooftops, but backed off in light of the Energy Commission's efforts. 
Currently, about 20% of new single-family homes in the state are built with solar, said Mr. Raymer of the California Building Industry Association, which represents thousands of home builders, contractors, architects and others. 
Builders would have the option to install solar in a communal area if it doesn't make sense on individual rooftops. By installing batteries that help homeowners save energy for later use, builders can also gain some flexibility in meeting efficiency standards. 
Whether other states follow California will depend on factors including weather, access to energy resources and local politics. 
Energy Commissioner Andrew McAllister said the solar rule was just the latest step in California's decadeslong effort to increase energy efficiency and renewable energy use. 
(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: Sun Smiles if You Can Pay the Up-Front Cost" -- WSJ May 16, 2018) 
Credit: By Erin Ailworth 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject 	Standards; 

Home building; 
Solar energy; 
Alternative energy; 

Electricity generation; 

Homeowners; 

Cost control; 

Construction industry; 

Energy efficiency 


Location 	California 
People 	Jurich, Lynn; Wiener, Scott 
Company / organization 	Name: California Energy Commission 

NAICS: 926130; 

Name: Association of Realtors-California NAICS: 813910; 
Name: California Building Industry Association NAICS: 813910; 
Name: SunPower Corp NAICS: 334413; 
Name: Energy Information Administration NAICS: 926130 
Title  California Solar Vote Is Set to Jolt Home Costs  
Author  Ailworth, Erin  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  

Pages  A.1  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  May 10, 2018  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2036663173  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2036663173?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-05-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 46 of 376 


Climate Activists Are Lousy Salesmen 
Stewart Easterby.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]26 Apr 2018: A.19. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Climate+Activists+Are+Lousy+Salesmen&title=Wall+Street+Journal&iss 04-26&volume=&issue=&spage=A.19&au=Stewart+Easterby&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Politicians, bureaucrats, activists, scientists and the media have warned Americans for decades that the Earth is headed toward climate catastrophe. Yet surveys consistently show that less than half of U.S. adults are "deeply concerned" or "very worried" about climate issues. If, as Leonardo DiCaprio insists, climate change is the "most urgent threat facing our entire species," why do a large percentage of Americans not share his fear? Climate crusaders tend to lay fault with nonbelievers' intransigence. But this is its own form of denial and masks the real reason: poor salesmanship. 
The promotional efforts of the climate catastrophists have lacked clarity, credibility, and empathy. These are the cornerstones of effective persuasion. Successful advocacy campaigns use lucid names to frame and sell their issues -- "living wage," "welfare queen" or "death tax." Climate can be confounding; it is long-term weather, but environmentalists chide anyone who dares call it that. Since Earth's climate is always fluctuating, the word "change" muddles it with redundancy. Swapping between "climate change" and "global warming" confuses the public. 
A good battle cry can rally the troops, but the Paris Agreement's aim is "to strengthen the global response to the threat of climate change by keeping a global temperature rise this century well below 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels and to pursue efforts to limit the temperature increase even further to 1.5 degrees Celsius." That is a far cry from "Remember the Alamo!" And Americans are always turned off by the use of metric units. In the U.S., Toyota wisely markets the 2018 Prius's fuel economy as 52 miles a gallon, not 22 kilometers a liter. 
American TV audiences bought Carl Sagan's explanations of how the universe works because of his obvious scientific expertise. Bold statements about complex systems are always more plausible when they are made by people with impeccable credentials. As a Harvard sophomore, Al Gore received a D in a natural=sciences course. Mr. DiCaprio dropped out of high school in 11th grade. 
The rank hypocrisy of many of the environmental movement's superstars also alienates potential followers. Messrs. Gore and DiCaprio lead lavish, jet-setting lives. It is hard to heed Tom Steyer's demand to ban offshore oil and gas drilling when Farallon, his hedge fund, invested hundreds of millions of dollars in coal mining. Climate change activists tend to be aggressive advocates, but over-the-top selling doesn't sway people who are undecided. This is as true for political surrogates attributing society's ills to the other party's candidate as it is for green activists linking all manner of extreme weather to climate change. 
Scientific impropriety has triggered a popular backlash against the climate change activists. The hockey stick chart, Climategate and questions about the integrity of National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration climate data have all fueled public suspicion. Only 39% of Americans believe climate scientists can be trusted a lot to give full and accurate information on causes of climate change according to Pew. 
Failed forecasts diminish believability. A Wall Street firm with multiple wrong market calls would lose clients. The actual rate of warming has come in below what climate models projected, casting doubt on future calculations. Likewise, claims that anyone can precisely estimate what global average temperatures will be decades from now don't pass muster with the average person. There are currently no betting odds for Super Bowl CX in 2076 or S&P 500 futures with December 2099 expiration dates. 
The burden of proof in the climate debate lies with those claiming rising temperatures stem primarily from human activity and not other factors. While the prosecution may feel it has a winning case, the jury's verdict is what counts. Labeling dissenting jurors "deniers" -- an insidious association with Holocaust denial -- is a losing courtroom strategy. Most people are naturally disinclined to obsess daily about a phenomenon that started long before they were born and won't reach fruition until long after they die. 
It's true that almost all climate scientists believe human-caused global warming is real. Similarly, American adults understand that expert opinions can change or turn out to be spectacularly wrong. Think of the recently overturned consensus on the link between egg consumption and coronary heart disease, or the reports during the 1970s that a new ice age was imminent. Against this backdrop, calling skeptics "anti-science" is counterproductive, especially since skepticism is the essence of the scientific method. 
From 2006 to 2016, China increased its annual carbon dioxide emissions 37% while America's yearly output decreased far more than any other country. In the Paris Agreement, China pledged to begin reducing emissions around 2030, meaning it can spew even more greenhouse gas for years to come. The U.S. vowed to reduce its 2025 emissions by 28% from 2005 levels. Yet questioning if the accord is fair to America or will forestall global warming is reliably met with sanctimonious scorn. 
My advice to the activists is this: you will attract more supporters to your cause if you can pick a name and stick with it, create a clear call to action, enlist a convincing spokesman with a small carbon footprint, tone down the alarmism, and fix the computer models. Most important, listen to the doubters, don't lambaste them. 
Mr. Easterby has worked as a sales executive for three publicly traded technology companies. 
(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: Climate Change Shouldn't Need a Salesman" -- WSJ May 8, 2018) 
Credit: By Stewart Easterby 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject  Global warming;  
Environmental protection;  
Paris Agreement;  
Burden of proof;  
Emissions;  
Climate change  
Location  United States--US  
Company / organization  Name: National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration--NOAA  
NAICS: 924120  
Title  Climate Activists Are Lousy Salesmen  
Author  Stewart Easterby  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.19  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Apr 26, 2018  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2030612737  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2030612737?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-05-07  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 47 of 376 


Coal Producers Struggle in China 
Taplin, Nathaniel.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]12 Apr 2018: B.12. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Coal+Producers+Struggle+in+China&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn 04-12&volume=&issue=&spage=B.12&au=Taplin%2C+Nathaniel&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
[Financial Analysis and Commentary] 
Now comfortably swaddled in new tariffs, American steel firms have had a good few weeks. But President Donald Trump's other favorite industry hasn't fared so well. 
BHP Billiton, the world's largest miner, a week ago exited the coal industry's lobbying group citing disagreements on climate change. Still, the most worrying recent development is in China, where the nation's power plants -- the world's biggest buyers of thermal coal -- are in dire financial straits. 
The trouble is the result of previous state interventions to help coal miners. In 2015, rolling coal-bond defaults threatened China's financial sector. Beijing's response: deep intervention to curb coal production, which lifted prices and margins. 
It was a wonderful idea -- if the government only needed to worry about coal firms. Unfortunately, China's electricity producers, which can't easily pass on coal price increases because of power-price controls, are now running into trouble. Operating earnings in China's power sector as a whole were barely two times interest payments in 2017 -- down from nearly 3 1/2 times in early 2016. 
Coal margins, meanwhile, have recovered sharply, with operating earnings now a healthy five times interest payments -- up from barely one time two years ago. But since China's power producers are twice as indebted as its coal miners, it is hard to call this an improvement. 
State media in January reported that China's four biggest power producers had sent an urgent letter to the country's main economic planning agency, warning that many plants nationwide were running out of cash to buy coal and that banks were curbing lending. 
Margins have bounced back a bit in early 2018 as coal prices have fallen, but all that power debt still needs to be serviced. If coal prices rise again, it is likely Beijing will step in with price controls or other measures to alleviate pressure on the power sector. 
Chinese coal output hit a 24-month high in December, hinting that Beijing's strict controls may be easing. Across the world, shares of U.S. coal miners like Peabody Energy Corp. and Cloud Peak Energy Inc. have been under pressure this year as coal prices have retreated. The heavy hand of the Chinese state on global coal markets could make those losses hard to recoup. 
Credit: By Nathaniel Taplin 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject 	Wage & price controls; 
Financial analysis; 
Price increases; 
Coal; 
Heard on the street (wsj) 


Location 	China; United States--US 
People 	Trump, Donald J 
Company / organization 	Name: Peabody Energy Corp 

NAICS: 212112; 

Name: BHP Billiton 

NAICS: 211111, 212231, 212234; 


Name: Cloud Peak Energy Inc 

NAICS: 212113 


Title  Coal Producers Struggle in China  
Author  Taplin, Nathaniel  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.12  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Apr 12, 2018  
column  Heard on the Street  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  2023898994  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2023898994?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-05-17  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 48 of 376 


How Tariffs Dampen the Energy Boom 
Darwall, Rupert.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]22 Mar 2018: A.19. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=How+Tariffs+Dampen+the+Energy+Boom&title=Wall+Street+Journal&i 03-22&volume=&issue=&spage=A.19&au=Darwall%2C+Rupert&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Is someone in the White House colluding with China? The Trump administration's decision to impose tariffs on imported aluminum and steel lets China off the hook for its chronic and deliberate overproduction. Worse, it sets the stage for a trade war that would rob U.S. manufacturers of the advantages stemming from America's recent transformation into the world's hydrocarbon superpower. 
From lifting restrictions on offshore drilling to ending the Obama administration's war on coal, Mr. Trump's robustly pro-growth energy policies have so far delighted American industry. Energy Secretary Rick Perry told an audience at February's Conservative Political Action Conference that America has finally turned the page on the Jimmy Carter era of resource pessimism and energy shortages. Forecasters expect U.S. oil production to surpass Saudi Arabia's output in 2018. Last year the U.S. produced 19.4% more natural gas than Russia. 
Having freed itself from the Paris climate agreement and dumped the Clean Power Plan, the U.S. now has easy access to more low-cost energy than almost any other industrialized nation. American coal production, exports and employment rose in 2017 after years of decline. Thanks to technological innovations such as horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing, the U.S. is awash in cheap, domestically produced natural gas. No other industrial nation comes close to matching America's energy exceptionalism. 
Normally all this would be great news for domestic manufacturers, which rely on energy-intensive aluminum and steel as inputs. In Europe, where green policies have pushed up energy costs, natural-gas and electricity prices are roughly double those in the U.S. Yet despite the low cost of domestic natural gas, U.S. primary production of aluminum has fallen by more than half since 2015. 
The reason is simple: China. In 2000 China produced about 11% of primary aluminum; now Chinese aluminum accounts for more than half of world output. After the 2016 election, the Aluminum Association urged President-elect Trump to make China's aluminum sector a top trade priority and force Beijing to the negotiating table. By adopting National Trade Council director Peter Navarro's aluminum tariffs this month, the White House effectively kicked over the table instead. 
A former colleague has described Mr. Navarro as an "environmental pit bull." He opposes major parts of the Trump administration's energy agenda, sees carbon taxes and wind power as solutions to global warming, and is against exports of American energy. Without access to foreign markets, the U.S. coal industry would likely die. 
The 25% tariff on imported steel is even more destructive than the aluminum tariff because it pits the U.S. against its European allies, making it harder for the EU to pressure China to reduce overproduction. EU steel output has fallen 23% since 2007, while Chinese production has risen 65%. In 2007, China increased its steel output by an amount greater than the total combined output of the EU and U.S. 
Until recently, the EU and the U.S. had a shared interest in tackling the problem. But that spirit of cooperation is gone. American steel tariffs are the issue now, not Chinese overproduction. 
America's newfound energy leadership could become an effective counterweight to China's financial muscle in the developing world. But if Mr. Trump insists on starting a trade war that makes American manufacturers less competitive and pushes the U.S. to the margins of the international trading system, expect the world's aspirational economies increasingly to turn to Beijing. Everyone would lose, but the biggest hit would be to America itself. Let's hope there's time for second thoughts. 
Mr. Darwall is the author of "Green Tyranny: Exposing the totalitarian roots of the Climate Industrial Complex" (Encounter Books, 2017). 
Credit: By Rupert Darwall 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject 	Petroleum production; 
Tariffs; 

Aluminum; 
Energy; 
Steel industry; 
Coal; 
Natural gas 


Location 	Beijing China; Russia; United States--US; Saudi Arabia; China; Europe 
People  Carter, Jimmy; Perry, Rick  
Company / organization  Name:  Aluminum Association  
NAICS:  813910  

Title  How Tariffs Dampen the Energy Boom  
Author  Darwall, Rupert  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.19  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Mar 22, 2018  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  2016333254  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/2016333254?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-03-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 49 of 376 


REVIEW --- The Enlightenment Is Working --- Don't listen to the gloom-sayers; The world has improved by every measure of human flourishing over the past two centuries, and the progress continues, writes Steven Pinker 
Pinker, Steven.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]10 Feb 2018: C.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=REVIEW+---+The+Enlightenment+Is+Working+--­+Don%27t+listen+to+the+gloom­sayers%3B+The+world+has+improved+by+every+measure+of+human+flourishing+over+the+past+two+centuries%2C+and+the+progress+continues%2C+writes+Steven+Pink 02-10&volume=&issue=&spage=C.1&au=Pinker%2C+Steven&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
For all their disagreements, the left and the right concur on one thing: The world is getting worse. Whether the decline is visible in inequality, racism and pollution, or in terrorism, crime and moral decay, both sides see profound failings in modernity and a deepening crisis in the West. They look back to various golden ages when America was great, blue-collar workers thrived in unionized jobs, and people found meaning in religion, family, community and nature. 
Such gloominess is decidedly un-American. The U.S. was founded on the Enlightenment ideal that human ingenuity and benevolence could be channeled by institutions and result in progress. This concept may feel naive as we confront our biggest predicaments, but we can only understand where we are if we know how far we've come. 
You can always fool yourself into seeing a decline if you compare rose-tinted images of the past with bleeding headlines of the present. What do the trajectories of the nation and world look like when we measure human well-being over time with a constant yardstick? Let's look at the numbers (most of which can be found on websites such as OurWorldinData, HumanProgress and Gapminder). 
Consider the U.S. just three decades ago. Our annual homicide rate was 8.5 per 100,000. Eleven percent of us fell below the poverty line (as measured by consumption). And we spewed 20 million tons of sulfur dioxide and 34.5 million tons of particulate matter into the atmosphere. 
Fast forward to the most recent numbers available today. The homicide rate is 5.3 (a blip up from 4.4 in 2014). Three percent of us fall below the consumption poverty line. And we emit four million tons of sulfur dioxide and 20.6 million tons of particulates, despite generating more wealth and driving more miles. 
Globally, the 30-year scorecard also favors the present. In 1988, 23 wars raged, killing people at a rate of 3.4 per 100,000; today it's 12 wars killing 1.2 per 100,000. The number of nuclear weapons has fallen from 60,780 to 10,325. In 1988, the world had just 45 democracies, embracing two billion people; today it has 103, embracing 4.1 billion. That year saw 46 oil spills; 2016, just five. And 37% of the population lived in extreme poverty, barely able to feed themselves, compared with 9.6% today. True, 2016 was a bad year for terrorism in Western Europe, with 238 deaths. But 1988 was even worse, with 440. 
The headway made around the turn of the millennium is not a fluke. It's a continuation of a process set in motion by the Enlightenment in the late 18th century that has brought improvements in every measure of human flourishing. 
Start with the most precious resource, life. Through most of human history, continuing into the 19th century, a newborn was expected to live around 30 years. In the two centuries since, life expectancy across the world has risen to 71, and in the developed world to 81. 
When the Enlightenment began, a third of the children born in the richest parts of the world died before their fifth birthday; today, that fate befalls 6% of the children in the poorest parts. In those countries, infectious diseases are in steady decline, and many will soon follow smallpox into extinction. 
The poor may not always be with us. The world is about a hundred times wealthier today than it was two centuries ago, and the prosperity is becoming more evenly distributed across countries and people. Within the lifetimes of most readers, the rate of extreme poverty could approach zero. Catastrophic famine, never far away in the past, has vanished from all but the most remote and war-ravaged regions, and undernourishment is in steady decline. 
Within developed countries, inequality is rising, but real poverty is not. A century ago, the richest countries devoted 1% of their wealth to children, the poor, the sick and the aged; today they spend almost a quarter of it. Most of their poor today are fed, clothed and sheltered and have luxuries like smartphones and air conditioning that used to be unavailable to anyone, rich or poor. Poverty among racial minorities has fallen, and poverty among the elderly has plunged. 
The world is giving peace a chance. During most of the history of nations and empires, war was the natural state of affairs, and peace a mere interlude between wars. Today war between countries is obsolescent, and war within countries is absent from five-sixths of the world. The proportion of people killed annually in wars is about a quarter of what it was in the mid-1980s, a sixth of what it was in the early 1970s, and a 16th of what it was in the early 1950s. 
In most times and places, homicides kill far more people than wars. But homicide rates have been falling as well and not just in the U.S. People in the rest of the world are now seven-tenths as likely to be murdered as they were two dozen years ago. Deaths from terrorism, terrifying as they may be, amount to a rounding error. 
Life has been getting safer in every other way. Over the past century, Americans have become 96% less likely to be killed in an auto accident, 88% less likely to be mowed down on the sidewalk, 99% less likely to die in a plane crash, 59% less likely to fall to their deaths, 92% less likely to die by fire, 90% less likely to drown, 92% less likely to be asphyxiated, and 95% less likely to be killed on the job. Life in other rich countries is even safer, and life in poorer countries will get safer as they get richer. 
Despite backsliding in countries like Russia, Turkey and Venezuela, the long-term trend in governance is toward democracy and human rights. Two centuries ago a handful of countries, embracing 1% of the world's people, were democratic; today, more than half the world's countries, embracing 55% of its people, are. 
Not long ago half the world's countries had laws that discriminated against racial minorities; today more countries have policies that favor their minorities than policies that discriminate against them. At the turn of the 20th century, women could vote in just one country; today they can vote in every country where men can vote save one (Vatican City). Laws that criminalize homosexuality continue to be stricken down, and attitudes toward minorities, women and gay people are becoming steadily more tolerant, particularly among the young, a portent of the world's future. Violence against women, children and minorities is in long-term decline, as is the exploitation of children for their labor. 
As people are getting healthier, richer, safer and freer, they are also becoming more knowledgeable and smarter. Two centuries ago, 12% of the world could read and write; today 85% can. Literacy and education will soon be universal, for girls as well as for boys. The schooling, together with health and wealth, is literally making us smarter -- by 30 IQ points, or two standard deviations above our ancestors. 
People are putting their longer, healthier, safer, freer, richer and wiser lives to good use. Americans work 22 fewer hours a week than they did in the late 19th century and lose 43 fewer hours to housework. They have more opportunities to use their leisure to travel, spend time with children, connect with loved ones and sample the world's cuisine, knowledge and culture. 
Thanks to these gifts, people in a majority of countries have become happier. Even Americans, who take their good fortune for granted and have stagnated in happiness, call themselves "pretty happy" or happier. And despite the panic about "kids today" (heard in every era), younger generations are less unhappy, lonely, drug-addicted and suicidal than their Boomer parents. 
As societies become wealthier and better educated, they raise their sights to the entire planet. Since the dawn of the environmental movement in the 1970s, the world has emitted fewer pollutants, cleared fewer forests, spilled less oil, set aside more preserves, extinguished fewer species, saved the ozone layer and may have peaked in its consumption of oil, farmland, timber, cars and perhaps even coal. 
To what do we owe this progress? Does the universe contain a historical dialectic or arc bending toward justice? The answer is less mysterious: The Enlightenment is working. Our ancestors replaced dogma, tradition and authority with reason, debate and institutions of truth-seeking. They replaced superstition and magic with science. And they shifted their values from the glory of the tribe, nation, race, class or faith toward universal human flourishing. 
These developments have been gradual and uneven, with many backtracks and zigzags. But the happy developments of the last two centuries are the cumulative gifts of the brainchildren they spawned. 
-- Disease was decimated by vaccines, sanitation, antibiotics and other advances in medicine and public health, driven by the germ theory of disease and our understanding of evolution, physiology and genetics. 
-- Famine was stanched by crop rotation, synthetic fertilizer, the replacement of muscle by machinery and the selective breeding of vigorous hybrids. 
-- Poverty was slashed by education, markets, global trade and cheaper food and clothing, together with social programs that support the young, old, sick and unlucky. 
-- Violent crime was tamed by a replacement of the code of vendetta by the rule of law, by fairer judicial systems and, most recently, by data-driven policing. 
-- Everyday hazards were blunted by safety regulations and engineering, driven by an increasing valuation of human life. A similar combination of regulation and technology is ramping down pollution. 
-- Oppression and discrimination may persist in some places by brute force, but they start to corrode when educated, mobile and connected people exchange ideas and are forced to justify their practices. 
-- War is being marginalized by the spread of democracy (which inhibits leaders from turning their youth into cannon fodder), global commerce (which makes trade more profitable than plunder), peacekeeping forces (which separate belligerents and extinguish flare-ups) and competent governments (which outcompete insurgents for the allegiance of their citizens). Also driving war down are norms against conquest, enforced by the international community with shaming, sanctions and occasionally armed intervention. 
The evidence for progress raises many questions. 
Isn't it good to be pessimistic, many activists ask -- to rake the muck, afflict the comfortable, speak truth to power? The answer is no: It's good to be accurate. We must be aware of suffering and injustice where they occur, but we must also be aware of how they can be reduced. Indiscriminate pessimism can lead to fatalism: to wondering why we should throw time and money at a hopeless cause. And it can lead to radicalism: to calls to smash the machine, drain the swamp or empower a charismatic tyrant. 
Is progress inevitable? Of course not! Solutions create new problems, which must be solved in their turn. We can always be blindsided by nasty surprises, such as the two World Wars, the 1960s crime boom and the AIDS and opioid epidemics. 
And the greatest global challenges remain unsolved. This does not mean they are unsolvable. In 2015 the world's nations came to a historic agreement on climate change in Paris, and pathways to decarbonization, including carbon pricing and zero-emission technologies, have been laid out. Since the closing days of World War II, nuclear weapons have not been used in almost 73 years of saber-rattling (including standoffs with the half-mad despots Stalin and Mao), and the New Start treaty between the U.S. and Russia, capping nuclear arsenals, went into full effect just this week. 
On these matters, the policies of President Donald Trump -- denial of climate change, planned withdrawal from the Paris accord, provocation of North Korea, nuclear arms expansion -- are alarming. But continued progress is in the interests of the rest of the world, and numerous states, countries, corporations, political actors and sectors of the military are pushing back against the intemperate plans of the administration. 
How should we think about future progress? We must not sit back and wait for problems to solve themselves, nor pace the streets with a sandwich board proclaiming that the end of the world is nigh. The advances of the past are no guarantee that progress will continue; they are a reminder of what we have to lose. Progress is a gift of the ideals of the Enlightenment and will continue to the extent that we rededicate ourselves to those ideals. 
Are the ideals of the Enlightenment too tepid to engage our animal spirits? Is the conquest of disease, famine, poverty, violence and ignorance . . . boring? Do people need to believe in magic, a father in the sky, a strong chief to protect the tribe, myths of heroic ancestors? 
I don't think so. Secular liberal democracies are the happiest and healthiest places on earth, and the favorite destinations of people who vote with their feet. And once you appreciate that the Enlightenment project of applying knowledge and sympathy to enhance human flourishing can succeed, it's hard to imagine anything more heroic and glorious. 
Mr. Pinker is Johnstone Professor of Psychology at Harvard University. This essay is adapted from his new book, "Enlightenment Now: The Case for Reason, Science, Humanism and Progress," which will be published by Viking on Feb. 13. 
(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: The Enlightenment's Influence on Our World" -- WSJ Feb. 17, 2018) 
Credit: By Steven Pinker 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject 	War; 
Aircraft accidents & safety; 
Famine; 
Sulfur; 
Poverty; 
19th century; 

Murders & murder attempts 


Location 	United States--US 
Title 	REVIEW --- The Enlightenment Is Working --- Don't listen to the gloom-sayers; The world has 
improved by every measure of human flourishing over the past two centuries, and the progress 
continues, writes Steven Pinker 

Author 	Pinker, Steven 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	C.1 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Feb 10, 2018 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 	00999660 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	Opinions, Commentary 
ProQuest document ID 	1999898441 
Document URL 	https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1999898441?accountid=14902 
Copyright 	(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further 
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Last updated 	2018-05-17 
Database 	US Newsstream 
document 50 of 376 


John Bogle and the Rockefeller Fund Respond 
Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]30 Jan 2018: A.14. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=John+Bogle+and+the+Rockefeller+Fund+Respond&title=Wall+Street+J 01-30&volume=&issue=&spage=A.14&au=&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
In "Stocks Weren't Made for Social Climbing" (Inside View, Jan. 22), Andy Kessler expresses concern that "corporate social responsibility" (CSR) funds have failed to keep pace with the S&P 500 Index. He's right. Over the 10 years ending 2017, annual returns on the average large-cap CSR fund were 7.8%, trailing the 8.5% return of the S&P 500 by 0.7%. But actively managed large-cap funds that don't consider CSR issues performed even worse, earning 7.7% per year and trailing the index by 0.8%. There may be valid objections to CSR funds, but over the past decade they've performed slightly better than their non-CSR peers. The S&P 500 remains a tough standard for all active managers to outpace. 
John C. Bogle 
Valley Forge, Pa. 
"Social investing" campaigns include not only promotion of preferred investments but a determined effort to disable these investments' competition. That darker flip side involves a "climate risk disclosure" industry. Players in this "CRD" movement include state attorneys general, comptrollers and treasurers, and lawmakers combining with public pension funds, interest groups and, of course, contingency-fee lawyers. Even academics admit to expecting a taste of the expected settlement fund. 
The campaign seeks to impede access to capital -- one player called it "divestment through value destruction." The effective goal is to coerce "confessions" in energy-related interests' public filings that catastrophic man-made global warming is a real problem of which they constitute a significant part, that their reserves are in fact worth little to nothing and their previous filings and other statements constitute actionable misdeeds, possibly fraud. 
The "social investing" industry represents more than suspect fiscal responsibility. It also embodies the darker attributes of the climate and environmental industries. 
Chris Horner 
Energy & Environment Legal Institute 
Washington 
Investors focused on profits regularly stop investing in companies that are underperforming the market -- particularly when those companies produce products the global community has concluded threaten humanity. It was financially rational to stop investing in coal companies, the worst climate polluters, long before the leading companies went bankrupt. Like coal a few years back, oil and gas stocks have been underperforming the market for the last five years. For example, while the S&P 500 was up more than 80%, Exxon Mobil was down 6%. Where's the profit maximizing there? Moreover, the recent rise in oil prices Mr. Kessler notes has done little to lift oil stock prices. Besides, the Rockefeller Family Fund is a long-term investor and keeps its eye on the horizon. 
Advocates of pure profit maximizing claim it best allocates resources, but they ignore externalities. Mr. Kessler therefore misses the simplest reason to unload oil and gas stocks. They have been woefully underperforming in the market and appear likely to continue to do so. 
Lee Wasserman 
Director, Rockefeller Family Fund 
New York 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject 	Large cap investments; 

Social investing; 
Stock exchanges 


Location 	New York 
Company / organization  Name: Rockefeller Family Fund  
NAICS: 813211;  
Name: Exxon Mobil Corp  
NAICS: 211111, 447110  
Title  John Bogle and the Rockefeller Fund Respond  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.14  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Jan 30, 2018  
Section  Letters to the Editor  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1992205763  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1992205763?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-10-26  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 51 of 376 


A Reality Check on Deregulation 
Jakab, Spencer.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]10 Jan 2018: B.14. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=A+Reality+Check+on+Deregulation&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn= 01-10&volume=&issue=&spage=B.14&au=Jakab%2C+Spencer&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
[Financial Analysis and Commentary] 
President Donald Trump declared last month that "the never-ending growth of red tape in America has come to a sudden, screeching and beautiful halt." 
But the sound that energy investors heard this week was sand getting in the gears of a White House initiative that would have hurt more of them than it helped. In a rare regulatory defeat, all five members of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission quashed a White House move that would have kept some struggling coal and nuclear plants running. Mr. Trump's former campaign manager Corey Lewandowski wrote darkly that the move was evidence of the so-called deep state of bureaucrats undermining the president's agenda, but four of the agency's commissioners were nominated by Mr. Trump. 
Aside from a sound policy consideration that saves consumers money, the real impetus behind FERC's move may have been opposition from a politically powerful coalition of natural-gas, oil and alternative-energy producers. Cheap, plentiful gas, along with some environmental rules, has played a big role in the decline of coal and nuclear power. 
Harvard Law School maintains an online "Environmental Regulation Rollback Tracker" with 40 entries like the Stream Protection Rule, Uranium Extraction Water Quality Standard and Greater Sage Grouse Protection under threat or already repealed. 
But the private sector and even the energy business aren't monolithic. Many companies like existing rules or want more of them. 
Take an issue like carbon pricing: Huge energy companies, most notably Exxon Mobil, have indicated some support. Aside from earning goodwill, having a say in rule making may beat the alternative. 
In some cases, rules give companies advantages over rivals. Take the regulation of methane, a powerful greenhouse gas that is both a fuel and released as a byproduct of oil extraction: It is believed to be responsible for about one-quarter of man-made climate change, yet regulations on capturing more of it from hydrocarbon extraction are at risk in Mr. Trump's regulatory overhaul. But the industry is split. Large U.S. shale-oil producers that operate in big fields tolerate the rules because they can pipe out the methane and sell it. For smaller producers in more remote fields, getting the gas to market is harder and more expensive. 
Not everyone minds some red tape. 
Credit: By Spencer Jakab 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject 	Energy industry; 

Natural gas; 
Heard on the street (wsj); 

Bureaucracy; 

Deregulation 


Title 	A Reality Check on Deregulation 
Author 	Jakab, Spencer 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	B.14 
Publication year 	2018 
Publication date 	Jan 10, 2018 
column  Heard on the Street  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1986075162  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1986075162?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-05-17  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 52 of 376 


Business News: Norway, Others Rethink Oil Bets 
Kent, Sarah; Adam, Nina.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]04 Jan 2018: B.3. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Business+News%3A+Norway%2C+Others+Rethink+Oil+Bets&title=Dev 01-01&volume=1&issue=1&spage=1&au=Itagaki%2C+Y&isbn=&jtitle=Developing+Economies&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/1213614&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Some big investors and banks are reviewing their bets on an oil-and-gas industry now wrestling with uncertain oil demand, government regulation and disruptive technology like electric vehicles. 
The biggest decision will come in Norway, where the government says it will decide this year whether to wind down investments by its $1 trillion sovereign-wealth fund in the oil-and-gas sector. Its assets include multibillion-dollar stakes in Exxon Mobil Corp., Royal Dutch Shell PLC, Chevron Corp. and BP PLC. 
Other investors, including French insurance giant AXA Group and Dutch bank ING Groep NV, are pulling back from parts of the industry that contribute most to climate change, like Canada's oil sands. In a world where the heaviest-polluting industries could be penalized, some investors say the financial risks of such investments could outweigh the rewards. For instance, Canada is introducing a carbon tax this year to limit greenhouse-gas emissions from oil sands. 
The moves are distinct from calls by environmentalists and so-called ethical investors for divestment from the oil industry, although those sentiments have been taken up by large, mainstream financial institutions more often since the 2015 Paris agreement to fight climate change. The World Bank said last month it will stop financing oil and gas exploration and drilling by 2019, in support of the Paris goals. French bank BNP Paribas says it will no longer finance some oil projects seen as environmentally damaging. 
Renewable energy, once hampered by high costs, has become cheap enough to compete with coal and gas in some instances. The U.K., France, China and India have signaled they plan to eventually ban sales of vehicles with traditional combustion engines. 
Norwegian officials say the current debate is entirely pragmatic. The country may be overexposed to a sector undergoing turbulent change by having both a large national oil company, Statoil ASA, and billion-dollar-plus holdings in other oil companies. 
"This is really a question of risk diversification," Yngve Slyngstad, chief executive of Norges Bank Investment Management said in an interview. NBIM manages the country's investment fund, which receives Statoil's profits and other energy-focused revenue in Norway for investment elsewhere. 
Mr. Slyngstad said the transition from dependency on fossil fuels to alternatives would take several decades. But he said investments in traditional oil companies should come with a "high-risk premium," considering "all the uncertainty around the energy transition." 
The Norwegian concerns have "put those industries on alert," said Matt Christensen, global head of responsible investment at AXA's asset-management arm. "The risks which climate change presents are becoming more understood as existential in nature." 
To be sure, wholesale divestment from the oil-and-gas sector remains rare. The sheer size of oil giants make it difficult for fund managers to exclude them outright. 
BP Chief Executive Bob Dudley said Norwegian officials had been "pretty clear with me" that their concerns weren't about climate but about diversification. "I can't argue with that really," he said. 
Norway's oil fund owns over 2% of BP's stock, according to S&P Global Market Intelligence. Any Norwegian oil divestment is likely to be carefully managed and take place over a number of years so as not to disrupt markets. 
U.S. investors appear committed to the oil industry but have begun pressuring it to change. Last year, a task force, commissioned by the G-20 and including major financial institutions like JPMorgan Chase & Co. and BlackRock Inc., published guidelines pushing for better disclosure of the impact of climate change. Across the U.S., utilities and oil-and-gas companies faced shareholder revolts as investors clamored for more information about how they view climate risk. 
"We think we can have more influence from inside the tent," said Rob Main, who sits on the investment stewardship team of Vanguard Group, which holds $4.9 trillion under management. Last summer, it voted against the boards at Exxon and Occidental Petroleum, demanding more disclosure of business risks related to global warming. 
Credit: Sarah Kent; Nina Adam 
(c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject 	Financial institutions; Investments; Petroleum industry; Oil sands; Natural gas utilities; 
Divestments;  
Climate change  
Title  Business News: Norway, Others Rethink Oil Bets  
Author  Kent, Sarah; Adam, Nina  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.3  
Publication year  2018  
Publication date  Jan 4, 2018  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1984046729  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1984046729?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-01-04  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 53 of 376 


Cuomo Is Urging Fossil-Fuels Exit 
MacMillan, Thomas.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]28 Dec 2017: n/a. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Cuomo+Is+Urging+Fossil­Fuels+Exit&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2017-12­28&volume=&issue=&spage=&au=MacMillan%2C+Thomas&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Gov. Andrew Cuomo said he will push for state pensions to be divested from fossil-fuel companies, but the official who controls the investment funds says the best way to 
address climate change is by leveraging shareholder power. 
The governor said he is creating a plan for divesting the New York State Common Retirement Fund from fossil-fuel investments as part of his 2018 agenda. Mr. Cuomo said he 
plans to detail this and other initiatives in his Jan. 3 State of the State speech. 

The state pension fund is the third largest in the nation, with a value of about $200 billion. Some $3.68 billion is invested in the world's top 200 fossil-fuel companies, according 

to the most recent estimate. The fund covers about 1 million current and retired public employees. 
The fossil-fuel divestment movement has been gaining steam as a way to address climate change by withdrawing support from the oil, gas and coal industries that are seen as 
driving global warming. 

Mr. Cuomo's proposal calls for an end to all new investment in companies with significant fossil fuel-related activities and greater investment in "the clean tech economy." 
New York City Comptroller Scott Stringer also said he would seek fossil-fuel divestment for the city's $191 billion pension fund. 
State Comptroller Thomas DiNapoli, who is responsible for pension-fund investment decisions, said he has no immediate plans to divest but welcomes the chance to work with 

the governor. Mr. DiNapoli said he has committed $5 billion of the fund's money to green investing, which he announced two years ago at a United Nations climate change 

conference in Paris. 
Mr. DiNapoli previously has said the pension fund can wield greater power over big oil and gas companies by staying invested. "We've shown that shareholders have the power 
to compel major corporations, like Exxon Mobil, to address climate change," he said in response to the governor's announcement. 

Credit: By Thomas MacMillan 

(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject 	Pension plan funding; 

Diversification 


Title 	Cuomo Is Urging Fossil-Fuels Exit 
Author 	MacMillan, Thomas 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	n/a 
Publication year 	2017 
Publication date 	Dec 28, 2017 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1980914592  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1980914592?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-03-29  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 54 of 376 


BHP Chides Coal Association on Climate Policy 
Clark, Adam.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]20 Dec 2017: B.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=BHP+Chides+Coal+Association+on+Climate+Policy&title=Wall+Street+J 12-20&volume=&issue=&spage=B.1&au=Clark%2C+Adam&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
BHP Billiton Ltd., the world's largest Western mining company, is threatening to leave the World Coal Association and U.S. Chamber of Commerce over disagreements on climate 
policy, the latest commodity firm to react to pressure on global warming. 
The British-Australian company on Tuesday said it disagreed with the association's call for Australia to abandon its clean-energy targets and promote the use of lower-emission 
coal. 

BHP itself has cut back on coal production in recent years, but remains among the world's biggest coal producers. 

The company said Tuesday it differed from the Chamber of Commerce's characterization of the Paris climate agreement as ineffectual and the business group's opposition to 
taxing carbon emissions. 
"We believe the Paris Agreement provides a solid long-term foundation for further progress in the global response to climate change," BHP said. The company pledged earlier 

this year to review its memberships in industry associations that hold public stances on climate and energy policy. 

BHP's announcement comes as the world's biggest energy companies are trying to present themselves as part of the solution for governments and consumers demanding more 
environmentally friendly energy. 
A consortium of 10 big oil companies, including Royal Dutch Shell PLC, BP PLC and Saudi Arabia's national energy firm, formed the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative to collaborate 

on reducing greenhouse-gas emissions. Exxon Mobil Corp. last month joined Shell and six other major oil companies in moving to reduce pollution from natural-gas production. 

Other big mining companies like Rio Tinto PLC and Anglo American PLC have said they support the Paris agreement's global commitments and goals. Glencore PLC has said it 
recognizes its responsibility to address climate change as a factor that will affect its business. 
In response to BHP's announcement, the World Coal Association expressed disappointment and said BHP's review didn't accurately reflect its views. The London-based 

association is a global lobbyist for coal producers, with its members -- including Anglo American and Glencore -- accounting for 20% of the world's coal production. 

"The WCA has always supported a balanced approach that integrates climate and energy policy, working toward a low-emission future for coal. We hope to be able to continue 
working with BHP on this basis in the future," said the association's chairman, Mick Buffier. 
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce said it looked forward to discussing the issues with BHP. 
"The chamber believes that the climate is changing, and that man is contributing to these changes," the group said in an email. "We also believe that technology and innovation, 

rather than unachievable federal mandates, offer the best approach for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and mitigating the impacts of climate change." 

The chamber has warned that U.S. commitments under the Paris agreement could raise energy prices for Americans. President Donald Trump has said he would end the 
American commitments made at the Paris agreement if he couldn't renegotiate terms. 
BHP said its position on leaving the World Coal Association was preliminary and it invited the group to respond by March 31 before it makes a final decision on membership. 

Similarly, it intends to talk with the Chamber of Commerce, while "considering" its continued membership in the Washington-based group. 

BHP said it also identified differences with the Minerals Council of Australia, but has decided to remain a member of the body. However, the company said it would request that 
the council refrain from policy activity in areas where their views diverge and that it would review its membership if that doesn't happen. 
The Australasian Centre for Corporate Responsibility, a nonprofit group that advises on ethical investments, offered tempered praise for BHP's announcement. 
Executive Director Brynn O'Brien criticized the company for staying in the Minerals Council of Australia but called its overall message "an emphatic market signal that the era of 

aggressive anti-climate lobbying is no longer acceptable." Credit: By Adam Clark 
(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject Global warming; Mining industry 
Location  Australia  
Company / organization  Name: Rio Tinto Group  
NAICS: 212112, 212291;  
Name: Exxon Mobil Corp  
NAICS: 211111, 447110;  
Name: World Coal Association  
NAICS: 813910;  
Name: BHP Billiton  
NAICS: 211111, 212231, 212234  
Title  BHP Chides Coal Association on Climate Policy  
Author  Clark, Adam  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.1  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Dec 20, 2017  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1978569560  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1978569560?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-03-26  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 55 of 376 


Business News: Glencore Hitches Itself to Electric Cars 
Patterson, Scott.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]13 Dec 2017: B.7. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Business+News%3A+Glencore+Hitches+Itself+to+Electric+Cars&title=W 12-13&volume=&issue=&spage=B.7&au=Patterson%2C+Scott&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
LONDON -- Glencore PLC, long known as one of the world's dominant coal traders, is finding itself a beneficiary of the greening of the global economy. 
The Swiss mining giant is benefiting from a coming boom in electric-vehicle production, which is driving up the value of copper, cobalt and nickel -- whose demand is expected to surge from production of the vehicles and the lithium-ion batteries that will power their growing fleets. 
"Electric vehicles will be disruptive to the world," Chief Executive Ivan Glasenberg said on an investor call Tuesday, and will boost demand for those three commodities. 
The shift toward commodities that are likely to benefit from policies meant to curb global warming is a noteworthy shift for a company that once bet its future on coal. Mr. Glasenberg said days after Glencore's 2013 purchase of Xstrata PLC that the deal -- the mining sector's largest ever -- was a "a big play" on coal. 
But tumbling coal prices later dinged Glencore's earnings, raising concerns that Mr. Glasenberg's bet had gone bust. Coal prices have rallied in the past year along with most other commodities. 
Now, commodities involved in the production of electric vehicles are becoming a primary earnings driver for Glencore. On Tuesday, the company forecast strong production growth in all three metals over the next few years, primarily due to electric-vehicle demand. It expects copper production to gain 25% by 2020 from 2017, cobalt -- of which it is the world's No. 1 producer -- to more than double and nickel to rise 23%. 
The company said it has completed an $880 million upgrade of one of its massive copper-mining operations in Congo -- Katanga Mining -- which will help it benefit from rising demand for copper and cobalt. 
Glencore had suspended production at Katanga in September 2015 so it could refurbish the mine and double annual production of copper to 300,000 metric tons, a goal it expects to reach in 2019. It said Katanga is expected to produce 34,000 tons of cobalt by then, likely making it the most productive cobalt mine in the world. 
A CRU Group report commissioned by Glencore forecast that by 2020, electric-vehicle-related demand -- including grid infrastructure and storage, electricity generation, charging stations and the vehicles themselves -- could require an additional 390,000 tons of copper, 85,000 tons of nickel and 24,000 tons of cobalt. 
Year-to-date, copper prices have gained 19%, nickel is up 8.5% and cobalt has more than doubled, according to FactSet. 
Shares of Glencore are up 26% this year and have risen more than fivefold since investors fled the stock in 2015 amid concerns that tumbling commodity prices could strain the miner's debt-laden balance sheet. Since then, Glencore has slashed its net debt to $13.9 billion from nearly $30 billion. 
Cobalt, a byproduct of copper and nickel mining, is expected to see the biggest increase in demand from electric vehicles. Cobalt demand from electric vehicles could surge to 314,000 tons by 2030, a more than fourfold increase from global supply in 2016, according to the report by CRU, a London-based commodities researcher. Mr. Glasenberg said he doubts there is enough cobalt in the world to meet that demand. 
Credit: By Scott Patterson 
(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject 	Commodity prices; 

Mining; 

Lithium; 
Copper; 
Electric vehicles 


Company / organization 	Name: Glencore PLC 

NAICS: 211111, 212210, 212234, 311314 


Title 	Business News: Glencore Hitches Itself to Electric Cars 
Author  Patterson, Scott  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.7  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Dec 13, 2017  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1975876515  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1975876515?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-03-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 56 of 376 


Business News: Energy Firms Commit To Cut Gas Pollution 
Kent, Sarah; Olson, Bradley.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]24 Nov 2017: B.6. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Business+News%3A+Energy+Firms+Commit+To+Cut+Gas+Pollution&t 11-24&volume=&issue=&spage=B.6&au=Kent%2C+Sarah%3BOlson%2C+Bradley&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
LONDON -- Exxon Mobil Corp. has joined with seven other big energy companies to reduce pollution from natural gas production, an effort by the industry to present itself as part of the solution as governments and consumers demand more environmentally friendly energy. 
Big oil companies like Exxon and Royal Dutch Shell PLC have increasingly touted natural gas as a core tool to combat climate change, since it produces fewer greenhouse- gas emissions than coal, the fuel it often replaces in electricity production. 
The rare trans-Atlantic alignment was first reported by The Wall Street Journal, ahead of the companies' announcement Wednesday. The collaboration by companies including Exxon, Shell, BP PLC and Total SA, shows the oil and gas sector is proactively trying to address burgeoning concerns about natural-gas emissions to ensure that its big bet on the fossil fuel pays off. 
Major energy companies have made big investments in gas in recent years and are steadily increasing their production volumes. They argue that it will prove a vital source of energy stability even as renewables increase their market share. 
But methane, the main component in natural gas, is also a potent greenhouse gas and the issue of fugitive emissions that occur when it leaks into the atmosphere is starting to draw negative attention. 
Exxon and its partners said they have signed up to a set of guiding principles, committing to drive down methane emissions from their assets, encourage better performance from their peers, improve transparency and data accuracy on the matter and advocate for better regulation. 
"The commitment was made as part of wider efforts by the global energy industry to ensure that natural gas continues to play a critical role in helping meet future energy," the companies said in a joint statement. "Its role in the transition to a low-carbon future will be influenced by the extent to which methane emissions are reduced." 
A recent International Energy Agency study found around 76 million tons of methane are emitted every year from global oil and gas operations. 
Exxon's decision to join the group leaves Chevron Corp. as the only major U.S. oil company that has yet to join the initiative. Both of the U.S. oil companies have lagged behind their European peers on the issue of climate and Exxon hasn't participated in previous similar efforts to build an industry voice on such subjects. 
Still, under pressure from investors over the past year, both of the U.S. companies have undergone an evolution in the way they address climate change publicly. 
Credit: By Sarah Kent and Bradley Olson 
(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject 	Emissions; 

Energy industry; 

Climate change; 
Pollution control; 
Natural gas 


Location 	United States--US 
Company / organization 	Name: Exxon Mobil Corp 

NAICS: 211111, 447110; 


Name: Royal Dutch Shell PLC NAICS: 213112, 221210, 324110 
Title 	Business News: Energy Firms Commit To Cut Gas Pollution 
Author  Kent, Sarah; Olson, Bradley  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.6  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Nov 24, 2017  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1967769782  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1967769782?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-02-27  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 57 of 376 


Germany's Green Energy Meltdown 
Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]18 Nov 2017: A.12. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Germany%27s+Green+Energy+Meltdown&title=Wall+Street+Journa 11-18&volume=&issue=&spage=A.12&au=&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
American climate-change activists point to Europe, and especially Germany, as the paragon of green energy virtue. But they ought to look closer at Angela Merkel's political struggles as she tries to form a new government in Berlin amid the economic fallout from the Chancellor's failing energy revolution. 
Berlin last month conceded it will miss its 2020 carbon emissions-reduction goal, having cut emissions by just under 30% compared with 1990 instead of the 40% that Mrs. Merkel promised. The goal of 55% by 2030 is almost surely out of reach. 
Mrs. Merkel's failure comes despite astronomical costs. By one estimate, businesses and households paid an extra 125 billion euros in increased electricity bills between 2000 and 2015 to subsidize renewables, on top of billions more in other handouts. Germans join Danes in paying the highest household electricity rates in Europe, and German companies pay near the top among industrial users. This is a big reason Mrs. Merkel underperformed in September's election. 
Berlin has heavily subsidized renewable energy since 2000, primarily via feed-in tariffs requiring utilities to buy electricity from renewable generators at above-market rates. Mrs. Merkel put that effort into overdrive in 2010 when she introduced the Energiewende, or energy revolution. 
The centerpiece is the escalating emissions-reductions targets Germany now is missing, which surpass the 20% reduction by 2020 to which the rest of the European Union has committed. The policy is also supposed to reduce total energy consumption to 50% of the 2008 level by 2050, with a 25% reduction in electricity use. That was a tall enough order for an industrial economy. Then Mrs. Merkel made it even harder in 2011, with a hasty promise after Japan's Fukushima disaster to phase out nuclear power by 2022. 
Energiewende enthusiasts say the policy is racking up successes despite the problems. That's true only in the sense that if you throw enough money at something, some of the cash has to stick. In electric generating capacity, for instance, renewables are now running almost even with traditional fuel sources. 
Yet much of that capacity is wasted -- only one-third of Germany's electricity is actually generated by renewables. Berlin has invested heavily in wind and solar power that is easiest to generate in parts of Germany that need the power the least, especially the north. Berlin will need to spend another huge sum building transmission lines to the industrial south. 
The other costs relate to providing electricity when the wind doesn't blow and the sun doesn't shine, which is often in Germany. The traditional plants needed to fill in the gaps are overwhelmingly fired by coal, on which Germany still relies for roughly 40% of its power. 
Natural gas would be cleaner and is easy to switch on and off. But gas is more expensive than coal, and the peak daytime consumption hours when gas could recoup that investment are also the times utilities are more likely to be required to buy overpriced solar power. 
As a result, natural gas accounts for only 9.4% of Germany's electricity, down from a little over 14% in 2010. Gas accounts for some 30% of U.S. electricity generation, and the shift to gas from coal explains a majority of the reductions in carbon emissions in U.S. generation since 2005, according to a report last month by the U.S. Energy Information Administration. German households pay nearly 36 U.S. cents a kilowatt-hour of electricity, versus an average of 13 cents in America. 
No wonder voters are in revolt. Surveys say that in theory Germans like being green, but polls about household energy costs say otherwise. The right-wing Alternative for Germany (AfD) won a surprising 13% vote share in part on a promise to end the Energiewende immediately. A new study from the RWI Leibniz Institute for Economic Research finds that 61% of Germans wouldn't want to pay even one eurocent more per kilowatt-hour of electricity to fund more renewables. 
This is casting Mrs. Merkel's coalition talks into disarray. Her prospective Green Party partners want to double down on Energiewende distortions by banning coal, starting with the 20 most-polluting plants. Mrs. Merkel's center-right Christian-Democratic parties and the free-market Free Democrats are willing to close 10 plants at most, in recognition that more would strangle the economy of energy absent nuclear power after 2022. 
Whatever agreement she works out, it's clear that German voters want more honesty about the cash-and-carbon costs of Mrs. Merkel's green ambitions. If instead she recommits to soaring energy costs and dirty-coal electricity, expect another voter rebellion in 2021. 
(See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: A Germany Energy Solution" -- WSJ November 22, 2017) 
(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject 	Solar energy; Carbon; Energy management; Electric rates; Coal; Natural gas; Editorials; Emission standards 
Location  United States--US; Germany; Japan; Europe  
Company / organization  Name: European Union  
NAICS: 926110, 928120;  
Name: Democratic Party  
NAICS: 813940  
Title  Germany's Green Energy Meltdown  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.12  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Nov 18, 2017  
column  REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  1965544145  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1965544145?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-05-17  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 58 of 376 


Big Issues: Energy (A Special Report) --- Does Nuclear Power Have a Robust Future In the U.S.? 
Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]14 Nov 2017: R.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Big+Issues%3A+Energy+%28A+Special+Report%29+--­+Does+Nuclear+Power+Have+a+Robust+Future+In+the+U.S.%3F&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2017-11­14&volume=&issue=&spage=R.1&au=&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Here's one sign that nuclear energy has been struggling: Operators shut down six reactors in recent years before their licenses expired, and announced plans for several other early closings, according to the Energy Department. Reasons given include competition from natural gas, burdensome regulation and market structures. Only new state subsidies can prevent more closings, plant operators have said. 
Still, nuclear plants produced almost 20% of total U.S. electrical output in 2016, and 63% of carbon-free electricity. Faced with global warming, many agree nuclear offers the most efficient renewable alternative to carbon-based fuels. Meanwhile, the Trump administration has promised to help the industry with incentives and reduced regulation. 
So, will nuclear lead the way, or won't it? 
YES: 
It's Competitive 
And Necessary 
By Rich Powell 
The future of U.S. nuclear power is bright -- and nonnegotiable. 
A robust civilian nuclear sector is mandatory for the U.S. to remain a major geopolitical, economic, military and environmental leader. After decades of policy neglect, Washington is finally addressing what is both a national and global necessity and a tremendous opportunity. 
Bipartisan political support is growing to reform new reactor licensing and improve tax incentives for new nuclear facilities, led in Congress by clean-energy advocates as well as national-security and energy-reliability hawks. 
The Trump administration has taken bold action to support nuclear energy, including expanding federal financing for the two reactors being built in Georgia and proposing that regulators change the way electricity is priced so that nuclear and coal-fired plants can earn more based on plant resiliency. 
Market pricing reform would be an important step in helping to restructure power markets and bring an end to the closures of reactors seen in recent years. Current markets undervalue the greater reliability of nuclear energy in the face of natural disasters -- true resilience likely comes with greater capital cost. New plants would also be tremendously aided by proposals for improved tax incentives backed by the White House that would benefit deployment of nearly 4 gigawatts of advanced nuclear power. 
Some don't believe in a nuclear future because of the low cost of natural gas. Gas is certainly cheap right now, but most vertically integrated utilities don't want to rely on a single fuel source, especially one with historically significant price swings. 
There is also nothing fundamentally expensive about nuclear. Much of the current additional capital cost is due to years of inactivity and resulting lack of experience and standardization -- gaps that deny projects the kinds of knowledge transfer than can lower costs through repeated construction of the same design. China and South Korea have been able to drive out costs through scale and repeated construction experience. 
Skeptics also point to falling renewable costs and stalled growth in demand for electricity as an argument against investing in nuclear. But wind and solar, because of their intermittent character, require grid-scale energy storage, and that is expensive. And despite low electricity growth, there will be need in the generation market to replace many kinds of retiring plants in the coming years. In fact, this just opens the door for advanced technologies, particularly smaller reactor designs. 
Several U.S. entrepreneurs are developing advanced nuclear-energy technologies that are smaller, more nimble and even have the potential to be cost-competitive with natural gas. One of these, a startup called Oklo Inc., is designing a microreactor it says could operate for 10 to 20 years at a time with low overhead. It's less than 1% the size of a traditional reactor and could be perfect for quick deployment to areas such as Puerto Rico, which saw its grid devastated by a hurricane. 
Bill Gates-backed TerraPower also has potential. It is working with Southern Co. to develop TerraPower's Molten Chloride Fast Reactor, a design that potentially has significant cost benefits compared with conventional generators. There is also NuScale Power LLC and its small modular nuclear reactor, which can be scaled anywhere from 50 megawatts to 600 megawatts of capacity and which will likely be operating commercially by 2026. 
The goal for each of these companies is to export its technologies. With forecasts of as much as $10 trillion in global investment in low-emissions power technology over the coming decades, major investors and technology developers are paying attention. 
The Energy Department recently announced that it will target advanced nuclear technologies for funding with the same highly successful approach it has used through its research program known as Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy, or ARPA-E. 
While the nuclear-energy industry has suffered setbacks over the past few years, the promise of advanced reactors and the importance of nuclear energy to our national security will attract the financial resources, the political clout and the policy reforms necessary to win out in the long term. 
A thriving U.S. nuclear industry isn't a "nice-to-have." It's a must-have. And it will happen again. 
Mr. Powell is executive director of the ClearPath Foundation, a nonprofit that promotes conservative clean-energy solutions. He can be reached at reports@wsj.com. 
NO: 
It Is Up Against 
Too Many Forces 
By Jason Bordoff 
A decade ago, nuclear power appeared to be on the verge of a renaissance in the U.S. The Energy Information Administration projected U.S. nuclear power generation would grow 13% from 2005 to 2020. The Nuclear Regulatory Commission was preparing to receive dozens of applications to build new reactors, the first in decades. Toshiba bought Westinghouse for $5.4 billion and had plans to install 45 new reactors world-wide by 2030. 
I believe a strong nuclear-power sector would benefit the U.S. But the truth is, the industry is in crisis -- and the signs don't look good for it turning around. In the past five years, six reactors (at five plants) have been closed, and operators have announced plans to shut down several more. The list is likely to grow, as more than half of America's nuclear plants are reportedly losing money. 
Moreover, all plans to build new reactors have been scrapped, save for two in Georgia, and their future is uncertain without major federal support. Westinghouse, the designer of the reactors there, is in bankruptcy proceedings. And the Energy Information Administration now projects the share of nuclear in our electricity mix to fall by nearly half through 2050, to 11% from a current 20%. Even that outlook may be optimistic. China, meanwhile, has several dozen nuclear plants in development. 
What happened? First, and most important, the shale revolution has delivered natural-gas prices far below what had been expected, undermining the competitiveness of nuclear power in deregulated markets. Second, electricity demand, which back in 2005 had been expected to grow nearly 2% a year, instead has been roughly stagnant, a result of increased efficiency and slower economic growth. Third, renewable-energy costs have fallen far more steeply than most projected. Fourth, the lack of a meaningful price on carbon means that the cost of power from fossil fuels doesn't reflect its full cost to society. Finally, public support of nuclear power has waned. 
Building new reactors is made even more challenging by the very costly and complex regulatory approval process. Even plants with new reactor designs intended to be safer and less expensive to operate -- like the one in Georgia, and one abandoned in South Carolina -- have run into unexpected problems and large cost overruns. U.S. firms lack the equipment and expertise to build nuclear plants after not doing so for decades. And the U.S. nuclear industry lacks standardization of designs and equipment, further escalating costs. 
While small, modular reactors hold promise to bring down costs and address safety and proliferation concerns, the Trump administration proposes slashing government investment in energy R&D. Meanwhile, shale-gas production is set to outstrip demand, keeping prices low, and renewable costs keep falling. 
The prospects for government policies that could support nuclear, from a carbon tax to a long-term waste-disposal solution, seem remote. New legislation may be in the works, but passage seems unlikely at present given congressional dysfunction and opposition. 
Federal financing is a necessary condition to revive U.S. nuclear power, but even with increased federal support, it is far from certain the plant in Georgia will be built. The project is only about one-third complete, costs have skyrocketed, and the planned start date has been pushed back many years. 
Energy Secretary Rick Perry's recent order to the Federal Regulatory Commission to consider guaranteeing recovery of costs to struggling coal and nuclear plants would prop up those industries, but it faces numerous hurdles at FERC, in the courts and with a long list of stakeholders who have filed comments in opposition. 
The decline of nuclear is cause for concern. Nuclear is the largest source of carbon-free electricity in the U.S., but retiring plants are mostly replaced by gas and coal. Additionally, a robust nuclear-energy sector promotes U.S. leadership in international nonproliferation efforts, supports our national defense requirements, and facilitates the expansion of nuclear globally with high safety, security and environmental standards. Left to market forces alone, however, the outlook for U.S. nuclear power is grim. 
Mr. Bordoff is a former senior director with the National Security Council and special assistant to President Barack Obama. He is now a professor in international and public affairs and the founding director of the Center on Global Energy Policy at Columbia University's School of International and Public Affairs. Email: reports@wsj.com. 
(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject 	Series & special reports; 
Nuclear energy 


Location 	United States--US 
Title 	Big Issues: Energy (A Special Report) --- Does Nuclear Power Have a Robust Future In the 
U.S.? 

Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  R.1  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Nov 14, 2017  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1963344805  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1963344805?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-05-17  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 59 of 376 


Big Issues: Energy (A Special Report) --- Do States Have a Role in Making Climate Policy? 
Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]14 Nov 2017: R.3. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Big+Issues%3A+Energy+%28A+Special+Report%29+--­+Do+States+Have+a+Role+in+Making+Climate+Policy%3F&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2017-11­14&volume=&issue=&spage=R.3&au=&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
When scientists from 13 U.S. federal agencies issued a report on climate change earlier this month that drew a direct connection between human activity and global warming, it was a reminder of the turmoil that has surrounded environmental issues since President Donald Trump took office. 
The Trump administration has rejected the international Paris climate accord, calling it a job-killing pact that impinges on U.S. sovereignty. It also has moved to repeal the domestic Clean Power Plan, following up on the president's pledge to boost the energy industry by cutting regulation. 
In response, several state governors have pledged to take the initiative on climate change by crafting their own strict emissions standards and pursuing the development of renewable energy with renewed vigor. Supporters say such actions not only will benefit the environment but also will spur the development of the green-technology industry. 
But critics say that such state initiatives have a record of being ill conceived and ineffective, and that policies that run counter to the federal government's stand on the climate in international talks are beyond the rightful scope of state governments. 
YES: 
States Can Mitigate 
Damage Done by the 
Federal Government 
By Arthur van Benthem 
Given the state of affairs in Washington, D.C., states should adopt their own policies to promote renewable energy and limit the emissions of greenhouse gases. 
Ambitious governments in China, Europe and elsewhere are ramping up pressure on their companies to become world leaders in green energy, electric vehicles and low-carbon technologies, in an effort to seize the golden opportunity that comes with the rise of the global green-tech market. 
Meanwhile, the U.S. federal government is backing away from those same policies, rejecting the Paris accord and hitting the brakes on fuel-economy rules and efforts to reduce carbon emissions under the Obama administration's Clean Power Plan. 
Several states, spearheaded by the governors of California, New York and Washington, have pledged to fill the void in leadership by adopting their own strict climate policies. In principle, having a single federal policy is cheaper for industry and less prone to unintended consequences. But an unwieldy patchwork of 50 different state policies is an extremely unlikely outcome of state initiatives. 
Much more likely, state efforts will eventually spur demand for strict federal policies, and operate at a regional level in the meantime. But they also could be short-circuited if the Clean Power Plan is replaced with weak federal regulation of carbon emissions that would preclude stricter state rules, or if the waiver that allows California to set vehicle standards that are tougher than federal regulations isn't extended. 
It is imperative that states be allowed to proceed unhindered. If they are, here are the highlights of what is likely to happen: two sets of vehicle regulations, as we have now for electric vehicles and local air pollution, and broad regional cap-and-trade systems to reduce emissions from electricity generation and heavy industry, like the ones already in place among the nine states in the Northeast or the California-Quebec-Ontario market. 
There would likely be two vehicle standards because under the Clean Air Act, California was granted a unique federal waiver to adopt stricter-than-federal vehicle policies, an acknowledgment of the state's severe smog problems. Other states have a choice -- follow California or stick with the federal standard. About a dozen states, representing some 40% of the U.S. population, have followed California's lead on tailpipe emissions and electric-car regulations that exceed federal standards. 
On fuel economy, when California set a tougher standard and 14 states followed, it led to an agreement among the Obama administration, states and auto makers on stricter federal standards. In exchange, California abandoned its own rule. The same could happen with regional cap-and-trade systems, which could be linked or subsumed under a federal trading system if they spur demand for a uniform approach. The governors of California and New York recently floated the idea of linking the two existing carbon markets. 
Those who criticize states for overreaching and moving contrary to federal policy should consider that state climate initiatives seem to fit seamlessly with the Environmental Protection Agency's stated goal to return power to the states under Administrator Scott Pruitt. The EPA has applied that philosophy selectively, aiming to relieve states that have a limited appetite for environmental action from federal regulations, by backing out of the Clean Power Plan, but explicitly leaving open the possibility of denying California future requests for waivers on vehicle standards. 
Then there is the criticism that states' efforts to promote renewable energy sources are far more expensive than continued reliance on nonrenewable sources for affordable, reliable power. That, too, doesn't hold water. The costs of renewables are falling spectacularly, and setting goals for their adoption will foster further innovation in battery storage technologies. The move to renewables is inevitable, and other countries have already proven they can run their power grids with far more solar and wind than the U.S. 
Finally, letting the states drive policy is the only serious option to put the U.S. back on track in the global green-tech race. 
The U.S. is at serious risk of losing its dominant position in this multitrillion-dollar and fast-growing market. For China and Europe, this is an unprecedented opportunity to run away with valuable patents, jobs and export markets. 
Just like our competitors, we need a supportive government that is willing to enforce policies to keep us at the cutting edge of green innovation. Now that the federal government has given up American leadership on climate, it is time to pass the baton to the states and let them pressure Washington into correcting a costly economic mistake. 
Mr. van Benthem is an energy economist at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. Email reports@wsj.com. 
NO: 
It Won't Work -- and 
This Isn't the States' 
Role, Anyway 
By Oren Cass 
Most state-level efforts to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions cannot help being incoherent and ineffective. Consider Vermont, which has established a so-called renewable portfolio standard requiring the use of 75% renewable energy by 2032. That may be a laudable aspiration, but it ignores how energy markets work. 
Vermont recently shut its emissions-free nuclear power plant, which accounted for the majority of the state's electricity generation. Without renewable capacity to fill the resulting hole, the state began importing more electricity from other states, generated primarily with emissions-producing natural gas. Ironically, it had already banned fracking, the technology that extracts the natural gas that now keeps its lights on. 
Meanwhile, rather than rapidly developing its own renewable resources, the state is leading a nationwide backlash against wind power: Vermont added no wind capacity during 2013-16. The issue featured prominently in last November's gubernatorial race, which saw an anti-wind Republican beat a pro-wind Democrat by almost 10 points. And, just last month, state legislators approved strict noise limits that will further limit development. 
Vermonters can confidently reject nuclear, coal, gas and wind from the comfort of their warm and well-lit homes because shirking responsibility for their energy supply has few consequences. They can draw electricity from a regional power grid and import energy-intensive goods by exhaust-belching truck. Their 75%-renewable goal presumes the availability of someone else's nonrenewable plants to keep the lights on when the wind isn't blowing and the sun isn't shining. Those plants will be operating affordably only if other states remain committed to a conventional grid. 
But Vermont is not alone. Twenty-nine states have renewable portfolio standards, and lawmakers in both Massachusetts and California have recently proposed 100%-renewable mandates. If everyone tries to reach their goals, and more states feel compelled to join and out-green each other, the grid will fall apart. 
This is not only irresponsible, but also fails to address climate change. Since nationwide carbon-dioxide emissions peaked in 2007, states with renewable portfolio standards have achieved smaller reductions, on average, than states without them. And even significant state-level achievements would mean little. The Obama administration acknowledged that its Clean Power Plan for cutting emissions in every state would not have meaningfully affected global temperatures. 
The reality of climate change is that the overwhelming majority of future greenhouse-gas emissions will come from the developing world. American emissions cuts are justified primarily as a means of showing leadership. But the symbolic actions of former Vermont Gov. Pete Shumlin and his colleagues are not going to lead developing nations away from their pursuit of economic progress. 
Nor is it the role of state leaders, no matter how displeased with President Trump's rejection of the Paris climate accord, to offset or undermine our national government's negotiating position on the international stage. California Gov. Jerry Brown is plainly incorrect when he defends his climate talks with China by saying California is a "separate nation." No one, presumably, would countenance governors opposed to the Iran nuclear agreement traveling to Qatar to coordinate continued sanctions against the Iranian regime. 
States will sometimes advance an economic, rather than environmental, rationale for their renewable-energy policies -- boosting a promising industry. That strategy makes no more sense here than in any other industry, where politically motivated efforts at market distortion would be rightly recognized as foolhardy. 
If renewables are as economically attractive as their proponents claim, then government mandates should not be necessary to spur investment and deployment. Conversely, state policy makers do neither their consumers nor their fledgling industries any favors when they mandate the purchase of things that the market doesn't want. A strong case exists for funding precommercial research and development in a variety of speculative technologies, renewable energy included. But that already exists and has bipartisan support at the federal level. 
States can supplement such efforts in their own universities. If they are looking for other ways to act on climate, they can encourage responsible urban planning and build infrastructure that will be resilient against stronger storms and higher seas. But they should limit their empty political gestures to ones that damage neither the nation's energy markets nor its foreign policy. 
Mr. Cass is a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute for Policy Research. He can be reached at reports@wsj.com. 
(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject  Emissions trading;  
Federal regulation;  
Series & special reports;  
Federal state relations;  
Policy making;  
Renewable resources;  
Climate change  
Location  United States--US  
Title  Big Issues: Energy (A Special Report) --- Do States Have a Role in Making Climate Policy?  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  R.3  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Nov 14, 2017  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1963326454  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1963326454?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-05-17  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 60 of 376 


Climate Alarmists Use the Acid-Rain Playbook 
Darwall, Rupert.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]26 Oct 2017: A.17. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Climate+Alarmists+Use+the+Acid­Rain+Playbook&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2017-10­26&volume=&issue=&spage=A.17&au=Darwall%2C+Rupert&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
A majority of scientists might say a scientific theory is true, but that doesn't mean the consensus is reliable. The science underpinning environmental claims can be fundamentally wrong -- as it was in one of the biggest environmental scares in recent decades. 
The acid-rain alarm of the 1970s and '80s was a dry run for the current panic about climate change. Both began in Sweden as part of a war on coal meant to bolster support for nuclear power. In 1971 meteorologist Bert Bolin wrote the Swedish government's report on acid rain to the United Nations. Seventeen years later he became the first chairman of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. 
There are many parallels between acid rain and global warming. Each phenomenon produced a U.N. convention -- the 1979 Geneva Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution in the case of acid rain, and the 1988 Framework Convention on Climate Change. And each convention led to a new protocol -- the 1985 Helsinki Protocol and the 1997 Kyoto Protocol. Public alarm surrounding acid rain was far more intense, especially in Germany, where popular reaction to media stories about acid rain reached a pitch of hysteria not yet seen with global warming. A 1981 Der Speigel cover story featured an image of smokestacks looming over a copse of trees with the title "The Forest Is Dying." 
The most striking parallels are the role of scientific consensus in underpinning environmental alarm and the way science is used to justify cuts in emissions. The emission of sulfur dioxide into the atmosphere "has proved to be a major environmental problem," Bolin wrote in his 1971 report. National scientific academies across North America and Europe were in complete agreement. "We have a much more complete knowledge of the causes and consequences of acid deposition than we have for other pollutants," a report by the National Academy of Sciences' National Research Council said in 1981. According to the NRC, the circumstantial evidence was "overwhelming." Many thousands of lakes had been affected, rivers were losing salmon, fisheries in the Adirondacks were in a bad way, red spruce were dying, and production from Canadian sugar maple trees had been affected. Acid rain was a scientific slam dunk. 
Politicians duly parroted what the scientists told them. "Acid rain has caused serious environmental damage in many parts of the world," President Jimmy Carter wrote in his 1979 environmental message to Congress. He signed an agreement with Canada to establish five acid-rain working groups, and Congress set up a 10-year National Acid Precipitation Assessment Program, which went by the catchy acronym Napap. 
To Canadian anger, President Ronald Reagan was more skeptical than his predecessor. The head of Canada's Federal Assessment and Review Office accused Mr. Reagan of "blatant efforts to manipulate" the science being done by the working groups. A formal note of protest from Ottawa pointed to the more than 3,000 scientific studies on acid rain yielding "sufficient scientific evidence" for policies to cut emissions. 
Vice President George Bush promised Canada that if elected president, he would act on the problem. But as acid-rain cap-and-trade legislation was making its way through Congress, the Environmental Protection Agency encountered a major problem. Napap's draft report concluded that the science was wrong. Yes, power-station emissions make rain more acidic -- rain is naturally acidic, and more so during thunderstorms -- but changes to ecosystems, the report said, were mainly caused by changes in land use. The felling of trees and the burning of stumps in the Adirondacks had reduced the acidity of the forest floor. After conservationists put a stop to it, the soil gradually returned to its previous acidity. 
Rather than admit it had the science wrong, the EPA set about suppressing the inconvenient findings. The Napap report was delayed until after key provisions of cap-and-trade legislation had been agreed to in Congress. As outlined in a 1992 article in Reason, the EPA then waged a dirty-tricks campaign to discredit Edward C. Krug, a soil expert and the leading dissident Napap scientist. It assembled a group of compliant scientists to conduct a sham peer review and conclude that Mr. Krug was a bad scientist. The episode ended with an assistant administrator of the EPA, William Rosenberg, apologizing to Mr. Krug to avoid a threatened libel action. 
To this day, the zombie science of acid rain lives on at the EPA's website, which falsely states that acidification of soil, streams and lakes is caused by emissions from power stations. The EPA reckons the annual cost of anti-acid-rain measures in the U.S. will reach $65 billion in 2020, but it no longer claims that the money will prevent ecosystem damage. Now it just claims to be improving public health. 
In its approach to the science of global warming, the EPA under current Administrator Scott Pruitt couldn't offer a greater contrast with the acid-rain coverup perpetrated by the EPA during the late '80s and early '90s. Instead of attacking dissident scientists, Mr. Pruitt's proposal to hold red-team/blue-team appraisals would put dissenters on the same footing as consensus-supporting scientists. This will enable proper debate between both camps to reveal the strengths and weaknesses of the scientific consensus on global warming. 
Open debate is as crucial to science as it is to democracy. Capping sulfur-dioxide emissions is an economic pinprick compared with the multitrillion-dollar cost of cutting emissions of carbon dioxide. If people's way of life is to be forcibly changed in an expensive attempt to decarbonize society, at the very least it should be done with their informed consent. 
Mr. Darwall is author of "Green Tyranny: Exposing the Totalitarian Roots of the Climate Industrial Complex" (Encounter, 2017). 
(See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: The Acid-Rain Playbook Worked Beneficially" -- WSJ November 1, 2017) 
Credit: By Rupert Darwall 
(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject  Acid rain;  
Global warming;  
Climate change  
Location  Sweden; Canada; United States--US  
Company / organization  Name: National Academy of Sciences  
NAICS: 541711;  
Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS: 924110  
Title  Climate Alarmists Use the Acid-Rain Playbook  
Author  Darwall, Rupert  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.17  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Oct 26, 2017  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1955403398  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1955403398?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-05-17  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 61 of 376 


End to Gas Glut Predicted --- Oil companies defend big bets, citing the rising demand for LNG in China and India 
Cook, Lynn.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]18 Oct 2017: B.2. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=End+to+Gas+Glut+Predicted+--­+Oil+companies+defend+big+bets%2C+citing+the+rising+demand+for+LNG+in+China+and+India&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2017-10­18&volume=&issue=&spage=B.2&au=Cook%2C+Lynn&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Corrections & Amplifications 
China is the largest emitter of carbon dioxide in the world, and the U.S. is the second largest. A Business & Finance article on Wednesday incorrectly said the U.S. was the 
largest emitter of carbon dioxide. 
(WSJ October 19, 2017) 
LONDON -- The world's biggest oil companies have defended their giant bets on natural gas at a major energy conference, saying demand will soon emerge for the huge 

supplies of fuel they are bringing to the market. 
Robert Franklin, Exxon Mobil Corp.'s vice president in charge of gas and power, said natural gas demand was rising in China, where imports of liquefied natural gas are up 40% 

in the past year. He said he believed India would follow China's lead soon, recalling talks this month among energy executives and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi who 
sought ideas for switching India to a gas-based economy. 
"If I'm bullish about gas generation in China and India, then I'm bullish about natural gas," Mr. Franklin said at Oil & Money, a major energy conference in London that draws 

executives, investors and government officials. 
Exxon and its rivals have invested more than $700 billion dollars in new natural-gas projects from the U.S. to Africa to Australia from 2007 to 2016, unleashing huge new 

quantities of gas. Exxon and Royal Dutch Shell PLC both say they produce more gas than oil now, and the same will be true for BP PLC within a decade -- much of it via liquefied 
natural gas, which can be shipped around the world like oil. 
That new potential for natural-gas supply comes as big petrostates like Qatar and Russia also plan to produce more gas. The flood of supply has depressed LNG prices and 

raised uncertainty about where all the new natural gas will be consumed. 
Many countries don't have the infrastructure to import the fuel or the money to make the required changes. 
Developing LNG markets still lack a coherent business model, said Charif Souki, chairman of Tellurian, which develops natural-gas projects. "We lack the infrastructure," Mr. 

Souki said. 

The question's urgency was underscored by an entire day of talks at Oil & Money about natural gas, the first time the organizers have devoted a day to a fuel source other than 
crude oil. 
The fuel is widely seen as a relatively low-emissions bridge from dirtier fuels such as coal to a future where renewable energy sources such as wind and solar become more 

prominent. 

The U.S. remains the largest emitter of carbon dioxide but has reduced its carbon output 21% over 10 years by shutting old coal-fired power plants and launching new natural-
gas power stations. 
Fossil-fuel producers underestimate renewables growth at their peril, said Otto Waterlander, a senior partner at McKinsey & Co. 
Mr. Franklin of Exxon took aim at two policies that have dented the outlook for natural-gas growth: Trump administration climate-change moves and European regulations 

favoring renewables. 

Mr. Franklin bemoaned the U.S. move to exit from the Paris climate accord, saying that the company's chief executive, Darren Woods, "implored" President Donald Trump not to 
walk away from the deal to curb greenhouse gas emissions. 
And he called European policies to promote solar and wind power growth "frankly ineffective subsidies," saying gas-fired power stations do more to help the environment. 
The White House didn't immediately respond to a request for comment. Mr. Trump has said he is open to negotiating a better climate deal for the U.S. 
The Trump administration has also made moves to support the coal industry. 

Sarah Kent, Georgi Kantchev and Christopher Alessi contributed to this article. Credit: By Lynn Cook 
(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject  Coal-fired power plants;  
Alternative energy sources;  
Industrial plant emissions;  
Supply & demand;  
LNG;  
Natural gas  
Location  United States--US  
Company / organization  Name: Exxon Mobil Corp  
NAICS: 211111, 447110  
Title  End to Gas Glut Predicted --- Oil companies defend big bets, citing the rising demand for LNG  
in China and India  
Author  Cook, Lynn  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.2  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Oct 18, 2017  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1951852776  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1951852776?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-30  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 62 of 376 


The Clean Power Plan's Counterfeit Benefits 
Milloy, Steve.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]16 Oct 2017: A.19. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=The+Clean+Power+Plan%27s+Counterfeit+Benefits&title=Wall+Stre 10-16&volume=&issue=&spage=A.19&au=Milloy%2C+Steve&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
The Environmental Protection Agency's proposed repeal of the Obama administration's Clean Power Plan is a milestone. No Republican administration has ever mustered the courage to roll back a major EPA regulation. In a clever twist, the Trump administration has done so by directly challenging the plan's purported health benefits. 
Although the Clean Power Plan was pitched as a way to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases from coal-fired power plants, averting climate change was not how the Obama EPA justified the rule. In 2015 House Science Committee Chairman Lamar Smith forced Obama's EPA administrator, Gina McCarthy, to acknowledge that the plan would produce no change to global temperatures. Instead, the EPA justified the net benefit of the rule based on collateral reductions in power plants' emissions of fine particulate matter. In regulatory parlance, this soot is called PM2.5. 
While the compliance costs to industry of the Clean Power Plan could be as high as $33 billion a year, the Obama EPA claimed that the economic benefits from reducing PM2.5 emissions would be even larger -- as much as $55 billion a year. 
What are the supposed $55 billion in economic benefits? That sum is intended to represent the value of thousands of premature deaths allegedly prevented every year by the Clean Power Plan via the co-benefit of reduced PM2.5 emissions. The EPA values lives "saved" at around $9 million each. Thousands times millions equal billions. 
EPA staff invented this calculus in 1996 to justify the agency's first effort to regulate PM2.5, although there's no scientific evidence, then or now, to support the notion that particulates in outdoor air kill people. The EPA regulated them anyway, stiff-arming not only the Republican-controlled Congress's demands for proof of the danger of PM2.5 emissions but the objections of then-Vice President Al Gore, who thought the rule too costly. 
The Clean Air Act requires air-quality standards for pollutants such as PM2.5 be set at a "safe" level. The EPA has long claimed that there is no safe level of exposure to PM2.5 and that inhalation can cause death within hours. But the EPA could never lower the PM2.5 standard to zero because such a standard could not be attained even if the economy was entirely shut down. 
The Trump EPA has now largely jettisoned the notion that PM2.5 is a killer by slashing the supposed economic benefits of reduced emissions by $29 billion per year. That nets out favorably against the rule's anticipated annual costs of as much as $33 billion. 
A robust body of scientific literature -- from large epidemiologic studies to clinical research to historical air-quality data -- supports the EPA's reversal. Standing against it are a few decades of dubious agency-funded studies, the underlying data for which the agency has kept well hidden in order to prevent independent analyses. The Obama EPA even defied a congressional subpoena in order to keep its PM2.5 epidemiologic secret. 
EPA chief Scott Pruitt has hailed repeal of the Clean Power Plan as the end of the Obama administration's "war on coal." It's more like the beginning of the end. New York's Democratic Attorney General Eric Schneiderman and green groups have already announced they will sue. Good luck. When the Supreme Court voted to stay the Clean Power Plan in February 2016, it was a clear signal that the coal industry and red-state plaintiffs would prevail on the merits in any future legal challenge. The EPA's acknowledgment that the Clean Power Plan has no economic or climate benefits is the final nail in the regulation's coffin. 
Mr. Milloy served on the Trump EPA transition team and is the author of "Scare Pollution: Why and How to Fix the EPA" (Bench Press 2016). 
Credit: By Steve Milloy 
(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject 	Coal-fired power plants; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Environmental policy 


Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 

NAICS: 924110 


Title 	The Clean Power Plan's Counterfeit Benefits 
Author  Milloy, Steve  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.19  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Oct 16, 2017  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1951024391  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1951024391?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-05-17  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 63 of 376 


Banking & Finance: BNP Won't Fund Oil-Sands, Shale Projects 
Bisserbe, Noemie; Kent, Sarah.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]12 Oct 2017: B.10. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Banking+%26amp%3Bamp%3B+Finance%3A+BNP+Won%27t+Fund+O Sands%2C+Shale+Projects&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2017-10­12&volume=&issue=&spage=B.10&au=Bisserbe%2C+Noemie%3BKent%2C+Sarah&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
PARIS -- French lender BNP Paribas SA said it would no longer finance shale and oil-sands projects, in one of the clearest signs yet the banking industry is re-evaluating its 
relationship with the oil sector amid mounting pressure from investors and governments over environmental issues. 
France's largest listed bank said Wednesday that it would stop working with companies whose main business is the exploration, production, distribution or marketing of oil and 
gas from shale or oil sands. 

"These measures will lead us to stop financing a significant number of players that don't further the transition toward an economy that emits less greenhouse gas," BNP Paribas 

Chief Executive Jean-Laurent Bonnafe wrote in a post on LinkedIn published Wednesday. 
BNP Paribas is one of the first banks to eschew parts of the oil sector. Many governments are taking steps to curb emissions and investors have been increasing pressure on 
companies over their environmental footprints. 

"Shareholders want to invest in companies that have a sustainable business model and are resilient in the event of new climate laws and regulation," said BNP Paribas's global 

head of corporate social responsibility, Laurence Pessez. 
Earlier this year, a panel of top financial institutions and companies led by Michael Bloomberg published a series of guidelines pushing for companies to disclose more about the 
impact of climate change on their businesses. 

"I think personally the writing is on the wall over the medium term for the most carbon-intensive fossil fuels," said Mark Lewis, a member of the panel. It is backed by the Financial Stability Board, a body that makes recommendations to the Group of 20 nations about financial regulation and policy. 
"The banks will adapt like all other companies to changing economics and changing investor preference," Mr. Lewis added. 
Exxon Mobil Corp. faced a shareholder revolt this spring as investors ignored management recommendations and voted in favor of a resolution calling for more information on 
how climate change and regulation could affect the company. 

Still, there is little sign that the oil industry is facing difficulty raising money. 

The shale oil sector has boomed over the last three years, despite a steep drop in oil prices. Most shale developments are in the U.S. where the Trump administration has rolled 
back tougher environmental regulation. U.S. companies also have access to a deep pool of investors and banks. 
BNP Paribas has already made moves to reduce its financing of coal mines and coal-fired power plants and expand its investment in renewable energy. 
Earlier this year, BNP Paribas said it wouldn't finance coal companies that aren't seeking to diversify their energy sources. 
Credit: By Noemie Bisserbe and Sarah Kent 

(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject 	Oil sands; 
International finance; 

Climate change; 
Petroleum industry; 

Banking industry 


Location 	United States--US; France 
Company / organization 	Name: BNP Paribas 

NAICS: 522110 


Title  Banking & Finance: BNP Won't Fund Oil-Sands, Shale Projects  
Author  Bisserbe, Noemie; Kent, Sarah  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.10  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Oct 12, 2017  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1949903526  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1949903526?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-20  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 64 of 376 


Business News: Power Firms Hold Their Ground --- Big companies stick to climate strategies despite EPA move to ease emission limits 
Puko, Timothy.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]11 Oct 2017: B.3. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Business+News%3A+Power+Firms+Hold+Their+Ground+--­+Big+companies+stick+to+climate+strategies+despite+EPA+move+to+ease+emission+limits&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2017-10­11&volume=&issue=&spage=B.3&au=Puko%2C+Timothy&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- Some of the biggest U.S. power companies said they are pushing ahead with investments in renewable and gas-fired electricity and are including climate change as a part of their corporate strategy, regardless of the Trump administration's plans to roll back Obama-era environmental rules. 
President Donald Trump has pledged to boost the energy industry by cutting regulation, and on Tuesday his administration took one of its biggest steps yet toward that goal. The head of the Environmental Protection Agency signed a proposal to repeal the first federal limits on carbon emissions at power plants, which would vacate the Obama administration's cornerstone plan to slow global warming. 
Some sizable power companies, such as American Electric Power Co., NRG Energy Inc. and Southern Co., said Tuesday the move will have only a marginal effect on their planning. Cheap fuel, improving technology and consumer demand are creating a market for cleaner energy that is largely unaffected by what is happening in Washington. 
But the move has symbolic and long-term implications. The Obama-era rules drew fire from Republicans and their allies in business who saw them as a prime example of government overreach. 
The Trump administration argues that the Obama rules weren't allowed under the Clean Air Act -- an issue that will likely be argued in court for years. Environmentalists see the rules as crucial to accelerating a shift from carbon-based fuels to renewable-power sources. 
Power-plant emissions are one of the largest sources of greenhouse gases, and President Barack Obama's administration targeted them with limits outlined by the EPA's Clean Power Plan in 2015. The limits were the chief way for the country to comply with the Paris accords, a pact among international governments to slow global warming. Mr. Trump has now signaled his intent to reverse the U.S. position on both. 
But a generational shift in the energy industry was happening long before that tug of war in federal government. Power plants cut their carbon dioxide by 25% between 2005 and 2016, a trend that is likely to continue, according to the Edison Electric Institute, an industry group. 
Cheap natural gas from the shale-drilling boom and more-efficient power plants have run coal-burning rivals out of business. Advancements in wind and solar power, with help from subsidies, have cut emissions, too. And confronted with the risks of climate change and how governments might deal with it, power companies now expect the cost of carbon emissions to rise and plan on ways to reduce them. 
"This will not change our planning process," a spokesman at Southern Co. said of the EPA's move on Tuesday. 
Credit: By Timothy Puko 
(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject 	Environmental protection; 
Power plants; 
Regulatory reform; 
Energy industry; 

Industrial plant emissions 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Trump, Donald J 
Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 

NAICS: 924110; 

Name: Southern Co NAICS: 221112, 221122; 
Name:  NRG Energy Inc  
NAICS:  221122;  
Name:  Republican Party  
NAICS:  813940  

Title  Business News: Power Firms Hold Their Ground --- Big companies stick to climate strategies  
despite EPA move to ease emission limits  
Author  Puko, Timothy  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.3  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Oct 11, 2017  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1949474731  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1949474731?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-01-23  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 65 of 376 


EPA to End Power-Plant Emission Curbs --- Agency's head plans to reverse Obama-era limits aimed at greenhouse gases 
Puko, Timothy.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]10 Oct 2017: B.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=EPA+to+End+Power-Plant+Emission+Curbs+--­+Agency%27s+head+plans+to+reverse+Obama-era+limits+aimed+at+greenhouse+gases&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2017-10­10&volume=&issue=&spage=B.1&au=Puko%2C+Timothy&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
The Trump administration is formally withdrawing federal limits on carbon emissions at power plants, triggering the next stage of what is likely to be a yearslong fight over the 
government's centerpiece regulation for slowing climate change. 
The move pushes forward on a central pledge of President Donald Trump: a rollback of Obama-era environmental rules he has criticized for harming businesses and coal miners 
in particular. And it pushes the federal government further away from any effort to combat global warming, following Mr. Trump's June announcement that he intends to 
withdraw the U.S. from the Paris climate accord. 

Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt said in Kentucky that he would sign a proposal Tuesday to reverse the rules. The announcement, made at an event 

organized by Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R., Ky.) in the coal-mining town of Hazard, Ky., confirmed what many had expected for weeks. 
"Repealing this Obama-era rule would close a chapter of regulatory overreach that set standards without regard to the steep costs or availability of technology necessary to 
meet them," Hal Quinn, chief executive of the National Mining Association, said in a statement applauding the decision. 

Power-plant emissions are one of the largest sources of greenhouse gases, and President Barack Obama's administration targeted them with limits outlined by the EPA's Clean 

Power Plan in 2015. The Obama limits became central to the country's ability to reduce emissions under the Paris accord. 
But Mr. Trump, who has called global warming a "hoax," ordered a review of the Clean Power Plan in March. The EPA's review called the plan a legal overreach, and both Mr. 
Trump and Mr. Pruitt have said it is burdensome to U.S. companies, and an unfair punishment for the fossil-fuel businesses to the benefit of wind- and solar-power producers. 

"The past administration was unapologetic," Mr. Pruitt said during Monday's announcement. "They were using every bit of power, every bit of authority to use the EPA to pick 

winners and losers in how we generate electricity in this country. And that's wrong." 
The EPA's assessment under Mr. Pruitt calls the plan an unlawful expansion of the agency's authority under the Clean Air Act by holding power generators responsible for limiting 
emissions through control systems that work from outside of their sites, according to documents obtained by The Wall Street Journal last week. 

Eliminating that requirement would be in line with what many industry officials wanted. 

The American Petroleum Institute, the Washington lobbying group for U.S. oil and gas producers, called the Clean Power Plan flawed and said emissions were improving even 
without it. 
"Market forces and technological innovation have driven the increased use of natural gas which has brought great benefits to American consumers, workers, and the 

environment," Jack Gerard, the group's chief executive, said in a statement. 
Utility industry officials were reserving comment ahead of Mr. Pruitt's formal signing of the withdrawal Tuesday. 
Mr. Pruitt's decision was met with swift opposition from both states and environmental groups. New York's attorney general said he would sue to stop the repeal and his 

California counterpart said he "will do everything in my power to defend the Clean Power Plan." 

Environmental groups made similar promises and many experts have said they expect the Trump administration's actions to lead to years of rule-making procedure and litigation. "The fight against this dangerous decision is only just beginning," the Sierra Club said in a statement. "Trump can't reverse our clean energy and climate progress with the 
stroke of a pen, and we'll fight him and Scott Pruitt at the state and local level across America." Credit: By Timothy Puko 
(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject Greenhouse gases; Climate change; Environmental policy; Industrial plant emissions 
Location  United States--US  
People  Trump, Donald J; Obama, Barack  
Company / organization  Name: National Mining Association  
NAICS: 813910;  
Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS: 924110  
Title  EPA to End Power-Plant Emission Curbs --- Agency's head plans to reverse Obama-era limits  
aimed at greenhouse gases  
Author  Puko, Timothy  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.1  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Oct 10, 2017  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1948903861  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1948903861?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2019-03-13  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 66 of 376 


U.S. Urges Price Shift for Energy 
Puko, Timothy.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]30 Sep 2017: B.4. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+Urges+Price+Shift+for+Energy&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=0 09-30&volume=&issue=&spage=B.4&au=Puko%2C+Timothy&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- The Trump administration is urging independent energy regulators to change how electricity is priced, proposing new rules that would bolster revenue for coal-fired and nuclear power plants. 
The Energy Department is mandating that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission consider new rules that would effectively raise power prices to pay more to plants considered more resilient. The department suggests nuclear and coal-fired plants as potential recipients, and charges FERC with tweaking electricity markets so they give more of a reward to plants that have at least three months of fuel on site and can run uninterrupted through extreme weather, disasters or other emergencies. 
Nuclear and coal-burning technologies are probably the only ones able to meet the requirements, experts said. Under the proposal, eligible plants would get paid enough to cover their costs and a "fair return on equity" whenever they run, even though they sell into competitive markets. 
FERC, which regulates wholesale power markets, is under no obligation to make these changes, only to consider them. FERC officials are reviewing the proposal, a spokeswoman said. Any changes made would likely be implemented by the grid operators that run deregulated power markets under FERC's oversight. 
This type of intervention from the Energy Department is rare, according to energy lawyers and analysts. It appears the department hasn't made a similar request since 1979 when, at the height of that decade's oil crisis, it encouraged FERC to help transition the country to natural gas and away from fuel oil, said David Doot, a lawyer at Day Pitney LLP, which has been researching the topic. 
The move is the administration's latest attempt to support fossil-fuel businesses. It has worked to roll back or delay rules its officials say were unwieldy and unfair attempts by the Obama administration to promote renewable power. 
But environmentalists and other critics see the trend as a political effort to follow up a Trump presidential campaign heavy on promises to the fossil-fuel industry and denials of climate change. Some critics claimed it is a bailout for failing nuclear and coal businesses, and criticized the proposal for blocking out options like batteries and smart-grid technologies that also could increase reliability. 
Nuclear and coal-fired plants have become an urgent target because dozens have closed nationwide and others are threatened. Those plants, often referred to as baseload, have been the country's primary source of power for decades, raising questions about how reliably the nation's grid would function if those plants shrink to become only a minor source of power. 
Cheap natural gas from the shale boom has been the primary culprit, fueling a new generation of much more efficient competitors to coal and nuclear plants, according to a study the department finished last month. 
"Distorted price signals . . . have resulted in undervaluation of grid reliability and resiliency benefits provided by traditional baseload resources, such as coal and nuclear," Energy Secretary Rick Perry wrote in a letter to FERC. "As a first step, it is especially urgent to prevent premature retirements of the resources that have these critical attributes." 
Intense lobbying efforts from power companies in financial trouble or faced with closing money-losing plants have already led to changes. 
Two states have passed new laws that effectively subsidize nuclear power while other states are considering similar measures and grid operators are pursuing changes to how they set the price of power. 
The new chairman of FERC, Neil Chatterjee, has expressed an interest in finding a way to bolster coal and nuclear power plants. FERC recently returned to a quorum of commissioners after several months without one, and several observers expect this issue to be one of the new commission's major agenda items in the months to come. 
Credit: By Timothy Puko 
(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject 	Coal-fired power plants; 
Nuclear power plants 


Location 	United States--US Company / organization Name: Federal Energy Regulatory Commission--FERC NAICS: 926110, 926130 
Title  U.S. Urges Price Shift for Energy  
Author  Puko, Timothy  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.4  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Sep 30, 2017  
Section  Technology  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1944508607  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1944508607?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-24  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 67 of 376 


Drone Champions See Upside in Regulation --- Industry proponents in the U.S. are seeking federal approval for broader commercial applications 
Pasztor, Andy.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]18 Sep 2017: B.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Drone+Champions+See+Upside+in+Regulation+--­+Industry+proponents+in+the+U.S.+are+seeking+federal+approval+for+broader+commercial+applications&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2017-09­18&volume=&issue=&spage=B.1&au=Pasztor%2C+Andy&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
At a moment when many companies are looking for deregulation from Washington, drone proponents are clamoring for more federal rules as the way to open up the skies for unmanned aircraft. 
The stance stems from the fact that until roughly a year ago, commercial drones effectively were barred from U.S. airspace because of safety concerns. Since then, the Federal Aviation Administration has given limited approvals for small, remotely piloted aircraft weighing as much as 55 pounds. 
With some exceptions, the initial package of rules permits operations only during daylight hours, up to an altitude of 400 feet and within sight of operators on the ground. 
But for many leaders of a budding industry that already has nearly 80,000 registered commercial drones in the U.S. and is projected to have 1.6 million by 2021, progress is too slow because the next wave of rules is still a year or two off. Considering the goal of having a single pilot control a flock of drones from long distance -- possibly doing everything from dusting crops to inspecting railroad tracks -- they see the FAA's current boundaries as unduly restrictive. 
That is why drone makers, operators and many of their would-be customers are bucking the governmentwide trend toward looser oversight. Additional regulations are their sole means of getting a green light for a much broader array of promising uses. 
So from packed conferences to congressional hearings to FAA-sponsored advisory committees, these contrarian voices argue that swift federal action is essential for the technology to flourish. 
This approach differs from that of many other industry sectors. Largely prompted by White House directives to scale back regulations, coal mining companies, oil and gas producers, chemical manufacturers and large agricultural outfits are among those pushing for looser regulations. Last week, the Transportation Department pleased many auto industry officials by deciding to take a hands-off approach to federal regulation of autonomous vehicles. 
In contrast with those businesses, "we want and need rules and regulations to understand how we can fly drones commercially for expanded operations," said Gretchen West, senior adviser at the law firm Hogan Lovells US LLP. 
Drone makers are following a tradition of companies sometimes seeking federal rules to protect market share, fend off rivals or override state and local regulations. Like drone operators, auto makers fret that confronting such a patchwork of requirements could pose huge challenges. Some major U.S. oil and gas producers have urged White House officials to remain in the Paris climate-change accord, which gives each participating country leeway to set voluntary goals for reduction of greenhouse gases. 
While the FAA, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and other agencies struggle with legal, technical and public-safety challenges unlike any in the past, drone industry officials increasingly are frustrated. They worry that a prolonged regulatory stalemate threatens to stifle innovation, sacrifice potential American jobs and hand other countries the lead in evolving market segments. 
The status quo will persist "until there are enough [drones] out there pushing the FAA to do something different" and the industry's prodding "rises to the level of bumping everything else out of the way," consultant Jim Williams, former head of the agency's drone office, said during a recent conference. 
Responses to Hurricane Harvey's impact on Texas this month showcased the industry's potential. The FAA issued more than 125 authorizations spanning various search-and­rescue missions, bridge inspections, flood monitoring and media flights -- some going beyond what had been deemed acceptable in normal circumstances. 
FAA chief Michael Huerta described it as a transformative moment, emphasizing that "every drone that flew meant that a traditional aircraft" was freed up to help save lives and "did not put additional strain on an already fragile infrastructure." 
By Friday, more than 130 similar approvals had been granted over storm-ravaged Florida. Working with government rescuers and industry officials, dozens of drone teams are assessing areas most in need of assistance and identifying where electricity needs to be restored -- particularly in parts of the state still inaccessible to automotive traffic. 
Longer-term, drones are seen as important tools to monitor construction, create maps and check for damage to pipelines or the condition of cellular-phone towers. IntelCorp. already has permission to use hundreds of tiny drones to put on fully automated light shows as entertainment. And insurance companies increasingly are relying on drones to accelerate processing of homeowner claims. 
Mr. Huerta has backed the concept of expanding the envelope for operators. In speeches, he sometimes likens the explosion of ideas and entrepreneurs to the flowering of aviation in the wake of the Wright Brothers' first flight more than a century ago. 
During the largest international drone conference that was held in Las Vegas recently, the FAA chief, who is slated to leave office in January, sketched out his vision of collaboration. Emphasizing that drones are "raising questions we have never had to deal with before," he said "the only limitation seems to be how quickly all of us, across the industry, can make it happen safely." 
Institutional hurdles remain, however, including the FAA's congressionally imposed mandate to abide by cost-benefit analyses. Yet when it comes to drones, the benefits of regulation generally aren't quantifiable in terms of accidents or deaths prevented -- traditional metrics that have ushered in the safest period ever for the industry world-wide. Instead, the upside comes from what the FAA chief and others call broader "enabling regulations," intended to promote economic growth by paving the way for creation of an entire industry. Some drone champions believe they deserve special dispensation in this regard. 
In an interview during the conference, Mr. Huerta said White House officials recognize that distinction and have been "supportive in working with us to find ways to enable this industry." 
Regulators, however, "are walking a tightrope" by serving as "both the policeman and promoter" of the industry, according to private attorney Mark Dombroff, who previously represented the Transportation Department. 
Politically, the industry continues to confront additional hurdles. President Donald Trump's administration has decreed that all agencies typically must eliminate two existing rules for every new regulation they plan to propose. Company and government experts say the FAA overall is struggling to comply, and it may have a particularly tough time issuing certain drone rules unless it gets some type of exemption. 
At a White House technology conference this year, Michael Chasen, chief executive of service provider PrecisionHawk, raised that point directly with Mr. Trump. The 2-for-1 principle "doesn't work for the drone industry," he recalls telling the president, because today "by default we are not allowed in the airspace." 
Some Drone Rules 
Have Been Delayed 
Recently released government documents contradict drone industry predictions of relatively swift federal approvals for expanded commercial operations. 
Updates to a Transportation Department regulatory website highlight anticipated delays in such rules under President Donald Trump's administration, versus faster timelines envisioned prior to his election. Certain other proposed rules for unmanned aircraft apparently have been deferred indefinitely. The slips partly reflect personnel vacancies and policy reviews. 
Final rules allowing small unmanned aircraft to fly over crowds or populated areas, once projected to be released by late 2017, likely won't be released until late 2018 or early 2019, according to details on the site and interpretations by industry experts. 
The original draft was slated to be cleared for publication by the White House Office of Management and Budget before last Christmas. Now White House vetting and release of a draft aren't expected to be completed before late February 2018 at the earliest. 
Since September 2016, the FAA has approved more than 1,000 individual waivers from existing limits. In an interview this month, FAA chef Michael Huerta said, "I'm not going to speculate" on precise timing for comprehensive new rules. 
Credit: By Andy Pasztor 
(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject 	Aviation; 

Federal regulation; 
Unmanned aerial vehicles; 
Drones 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Huerta, Michael 
Company / organization 	Name: Federal Aviation Administration--FAA 

NAICS: 926120 


Title 	Drone Champions See Upside in Regulation --- Industry proponents in the U.S. are seeking 
federal approval for broader commercial applications 

Author 	Pasztor, Andy 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	B.1 
Publication year 	2017 
Publication date 	Sep 18, 2017 
column  Industry Focus  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1939686137  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1939686137?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-24  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 68 of 376 


Democrats Have the Green Party Blues 
Melloan, George.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]07 Sep 2017: A.17. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Democrats+Have+the+Green+Party+Blues&title=Wall+Street+Journ 09-07&volume=&issue=&spage=A.17&au=Melloan%2C+George&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
The political commentariat has unleashed a torrent of words since the 2016 election analyzing what befell the Democrats. Donald Trump won because of his TV fame; he tweeted his way into the White House; the Russians did it; etc. 
Why not spend a few more words on the current demeanor of the Democratic Party? It was losing badly in elections at all levels as early as 2010, well before Mr. Trump came along. Despite its deeply flawed candidate, Hillary of the indiscreet emails, it won the popular vote for the presidency and therefore still has to be taken seriously. 
Its members and backers, particularly at influential media organizations like the New York Times, the Washington Post and MSNBC, have been heaping abuse on the new president, suggesting Mr. Trump's victory was illegitimate. When they hurl the words "fascist" and "plutocrat" wildly, their anger begins to sound pathological. 
We know that the Democrats have been, since the New Deal, the party of government. Some of the outrage at Mr. Trump comes from federal bureaucrats who fear for their jobs. That's understandable enough -- simple economic determinism, as the Marxists might say. 
But recent history reveals something else that may help explain the Democratic Party's problems. Whereas it became the party of labor in the late 1930s and then snatched the civil-rights banner out of Republican hands in the 1960s, of late it has veered in a direction that does not particularly suit the interests of either working people or people of color with ambitions to climb the economic ladder. It has become, in essence, America's Green Party, eclipsing the tiny party that bears that name. 
Underlying the Green philosophy is a distrust of economic growth. That's what distinguishes Greens from garden-variety environmentalists who simply want a safe and clean environment, as everyone does. Although the Greens operate under the flag of environmentalism, they have greater ambitions. They are a modern manifestation of a back-to­nature movement, feeding on the guilt and anxiety that accompany scientific advance. 
Greens adopted the Democratic Party precisely because it is the party of government. They see government power as the way to suppress the animal spirits of private enterprise that produce innovation and new wealth. 
Under Green influence, Democratic lawmakers, when they controlled Congress, designated large tracts of the American West as new "wilderness areas." They fostered the Endangered Species Act, which has been an effective barrier to industrial or agricultural development in more than a few states, often on specious claims of endangerment. They vastly expanded the amount of private property officially designated as "wetlands," thus restricting its use. Other examples abound. 
And of course the Democrats, with Al Gore as their Joan of Arc, took up arms against fossil fuels with the fantastic claim that burning them endangers the planet. If that isn't a call for a return to the dark ages -- literally -- what is? Without oil, coal and gas to run the power plants that supply electricity for lights, household appliances and factories, the economy would shut down. In Australia, Green attacks on coal have in fact caused blackouts. 
To demonstrate how Green the Democrats have become, one need go no further than President Obama's statement last year that climate change (the new code word for global warming) is the nation's No. 1 problem. He also claimed 97% of scientists agree that "climate change is real, man-made and dangerous." But actual scientists don't agree 97% on much of anything. 
The modern Green movement got traction from the 1968 founding of the Club of Rome at that city's Accademia dei Lincei. Describing itself as a global think tank concerned with the "future of humanity," it produced a global best seller called "The Limits to Growth," predicting, inaccurately, that at the then-current rate of development mankind would soon exhaust the Earth's natural resources. Maurice Strong, a self-described socialist and former oil tycoon, imported the Club of Rome's philosophy into the United Nations, launching the U.N.'s propagation of the global warming theory. 
The Democrats still claim to be the party of labor, but their attack on the energy sources that keep the economy running can hardly be described as pro-worker. Government employee unions still adhere to the Democrats, but the leaders of industrial unions, who now represent only a single-digit percentage of the workforce, are belatedly beginning to have second thoughts. 
Working people, fed up with the diktats of the Greens who infest their farms and factories, were a major factor in the election of Mr. Trump. The Greens, concentrated in coastal blue states, were shocked that anyone would question their motives. But to many Americans it looked like the Greens were disdainful of the aspirations of working people to live the good life -- and there may have been some truth to that. When Mrs. Clinton described them as "deplorables," that was the last straw. 
If the Democrats want to make a comeback, they should think about purging their ranks of these zealots. Greens want to deprive the economy of its basic energy sources, and they have little regard for the consequences, mainly because they don't think they will be among the victims. It might take some doing, but ditching the Greens is, if you'll excuse the expression, Democrats' best path out of the wilderness. 
Mr. Melloan is a former deputy editor of the Journal editorial page and author of "Free People, Free Markets: How the Wall Street Journal Opinion Pages Shaped America" (Encounter, 2017). 
Credit: By George Melloan 
(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject  Environmental protection;  
Endangered & extinct species;  
Political parties;  
Climate change  
Company / organization  Name: Democratic Party  
NAICS: 813940  
Title  Democrats Have the Green Party Blues  
Author  Melloan, George  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.17  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Sep 7, 2017  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1936103478  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1936103478?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-05-17  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 69 of 376 


Dong Energy Gets Second Wind 
Kent, Sarah.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]01 Sep 2017: B.2. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Dong+Energy+Gets+Second+Wind&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00 09-01&volume=&issue=&spage=B.2&au=Kent%2C+Sarah&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
COPENHAGEN -- A company whose name stands for Danish Oil and Natural Gas is getting out of both businesses. 
Dong Energy AS, Denmark's majority state-owned energy company, is selling off its last oil and natural-gas fields in a deal expected to close by the end of September. The billion-dollar-plus sale is part of a broader plan to significantly reduce the company's exposure to fossil fuels and produce energy primarily from renewable sources. With the help of a sizable infusion of cash from Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Dong Energy over the past few years has transformed itself from one of Europe's most coal-intensive 
utilities and a small regional oil competitor into the world's biggest producer of offshore wind power. 
Now Dong has set its sights on helping to establish the U.S. offshore wind industry, looking at three new projects off the East Coast. 
On the outskirts of Denmark's capital, the company's largest power plant is burning wood pellets -- a renewable-energy source despite some concerns over their environmental 

credentials. By 2023 the company intends to go coal-free, though some of its power plants will continue to burn natural gas. 

Dong's transformation comes as global oil-and-gas companies wrestle with the prospect of oil demand plateauing amid a push to tackle climate change. Companies such as 
Royal Dutch Shell PLC and France's Total SA are also building their renewable businesses and betting billions on an energy future where oil plays a diminished role. 
"The world needs to change the way it produces energy," Dong Chief Executive Henrik Poulsen said. 
Shell and other bigger oil companies say they have no plans to abandon their core oil and gas business, despite pressure from some shareholders. 
"Tying the company's hands down to a renewables-only mandate, I think, would be strategically and commercially unwise," Shell Chief Executive Ben van Beurden told investors 

at the company's annual meeting last year. 
Dong began to shift its focus from fossil fuels around 2008, as the European Union set new targets for renewable energy in the bloc. 
At the time, 85% of the company's power production was based on fossil fuels. Offshore wind was one of the most expensive energy sources in the world and only a handful of 

ocean-bound wind farms had been built. 

Goldman saw an opportunity when Dong was seeking money to help it through a rocky financial patch. In 2014, the bank paid eight billion kroner ($1.28 billion) for an 18% 
stake in the company, which remains 50%-owned by the Danish government. 
Goldman has been gradually reducing its stake in Dong, and on Thursday sold shares accounting for about 1.8% of the company to institutional investors. Goldman still owns 

2.7% of Dong after the sale. 

Erin Ailworth in Houston contributed to this article. Credit: By Sarah Kent 
(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject 	Alternative energy sources; 

Divestiture; 
Oil fields; 
Natural gas 


Location 	Denmark 
Company / organization 	Name: DONG Energy AS 

NAICS: 211111, 221122, 221210, 486110 


Title  Dong Energy Gets Second Wind  
Author  Kent, Sarah  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.2  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Sep 1, 2017  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1934091365  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1934091365?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-24  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 70 of 376 


Coal Makes a Comeback 
Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]17 Aug 2017: A.14. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Coal+Makes+a+Comeback&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=009996 08-17&volume=&issue=&spage=A.14&au=&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Not long ago liberals hailed the demise of coal as inevitable while the Obama Administration strangled the industry with regulation. But don't look now, Tom Steyer, because coal is showing signs of a revival and breathing economic life into West Virginia and other coal states. 
Former Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Gina McCarthy proclaimed in 2015 that coal "is no longer marketable." She planned to be the lead undertaker. The Obama Administration worked tirelessly to fulfill her mission and may have succeeded had Hillary Clinton become President. "We're going to put a lot of coal miners and coal companies out of work," the 2016 Democratic nominee famously promised. 
Yet the Trump Presidency seems to have lifted animal spirits and coal. Weekly coal production has increased by 14.5% nationwide over last year with even bigger bumps in West Virginia (19%), Pennsylvania (19.7%) and Wyoming (19.8%). Exports were up 58% during the first quarter from last year. Apparently coal can be marketable if regulators let it be. 
The Obama Administration first targeted coal consumption with rules on mercury emissions and ash disposal that would have made it next to impossible to build a new coal-burning power plant. Then came the 2015 Clean Power Plan that would have forced the existing fleet of coal plants into early retirement. 
Finally, the Obama anti-coal warriors sought to shut down coal's export potential. Thick-seamed coal on federal land in the Powder River Basin overlying Wyoming and Montana is relatively clean-burning and inexpensive to mine. The Obama Interior Department suspended new coal leases on federal land last winter and then reassessed royalty payments -- thereby reducing investment and profitability. In December came the coup de grace: Interior's stream rule usurping state authority over permitting. 
President Trump has called a cease fire to his predecessor's "war on coal." In February he signed a resolution repealing the stream rule under the Congressional Review Act. The Supreme Court stayed the Clean Power Plan in February 2016, and EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt is dismantling the power rule as well as the ash and mercury rules. Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke has re-opened leases and rescinded the royalty revaluation. 
Meanwhile, coal is becoming more competitive as a fuel source relative to natural gas, whose price has risen 63% since March 2016 amid an expanding market. The Energy Information Administration says the U.S. will be a net exporter of natural gas this year. 
Growing pipeline networks have boosted gas exports to Mexico and are providing new domestic outlets for gas trapped in the Marcellus and Utica Shales. Pipeline export capacity to Mexico is expected to nearly double by 2019. Several interstate pipelines are under review to deliver gas to the Midwest, eastern Canada and Gulf Coast for export. Liquefied natural gas exports have increased six-fold in the last year, and five new terminal projects are expected to be completed within three years. While coal and natural gas compete as electric power fuels, they can both prosper if energy markets expand. 
This is all horrifying to the climate-change lobby, but they might note that U.S. coal exports are rising to countries that claim climate-change virtue. Exports to France increased 214% during the first quarter of this year amid a nuclear power plant outage. Other European countries like Germany and the U.K. are utilizing U.S. coal to stabilize unreliable renewable sources and make up for electric capacity lost from the shutdown of nuclear plants. First-quarter coal exports were up 94% to Germany and 282% to the U.K. Et tu, Angela Merkel? 
Coking coal used to make steel is also currently a hot commodity, and its price can soar whenever a storm hits Australia and shuts down mines as one did this spring. Metallurgical exports to China rose 357% during the first quarter. As much as Mr. Trump denounces China's overproduction of steel, U.S. coal miners are benefitting. 
The bigger story is that there's still demand for U.S. coal if regulators allow energy markets to work. The Energy Information Administration in June projected that U.S. coal power generation will increase by 13% by 2025 "as the existing fleet of coal-fired generators can be more fully utilized and fewer coal-fired generators are retired." With the Obama Clean Power Plan, the EIA had forecast a 2% to 16% decline. 
Coal production will likely never return to its heyday of decades ago. Recent bankruptcies that have made coal companies leaner and more competitive also mean that fewer workers are needed to produce the same output. But even the current modest rebound is helping coal states. 
During the first quarter, West Virginia (3%) ranked second in the nation in GDP growth after Texas (3.9%), according to the Bureau of Economic Analysis. New Mexico, another heavy mining state, came in third (2.8%). Mining resurgences began in West Virginia, Kentucky and New Mexico last summer after the Clean Power Plan was stayed. After plummeting last year, Wyoming and Montana's mining industries grew during the first quarter. 
Two or three quarters of economic data don't make a long-term trend, but all of this is still good news for coal states that have experienced two years of little or negative growth and years of political assault. 
(See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: Old King Coal May Rightly Be Merry Again" -- WSJ Aug. 28, 2017) 
(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject  Editorials;  
Coal mining;  
Exports;  
Energy industry;  
Natural gas;  
Coal industry  
Title  Coal Makes a Comeback  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.14  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Aug 17, 2017  
column  REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  1929380831  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1929380831?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-05-17  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 71 of 376 


Volvo Discovers Electric-Vehicle Hype 
Jenkins, Holman W, Jr.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]08 July 2017: A.13. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Volvo+Discovers+Electric­Vehicle+Hype&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2017-07­08&volume=&issue=&spage=A.13&au=Jenkins%2C+Holman+W%2C+Jr&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Volvo, unlike just about every major car maker, doesn't even have an electric car in the market today. The hybrid version of the XC90 comes with a $75,000 price tag: A customer who wants a hybrid is also presumed to want the 19-speaker, 1,400-watt sound system, the self-parking package and every other option Volvo can stuff into a $75,000 SUV. Volvo's announcement signals nothing about the electric-car future and everything about Volvo's niche marketing. [...]Volvo-like safety has long since become the price of admission in the car business, so Volvo has been deliberately rebranding its niche -- and its ambitions are entirely wrapped up in being a niche player -- as a technology icon. [...]only through the intervention of Angela Merkel, the German leader who knows a thing or two about green excess, was the timeline delayed from 2018. 

Full Text 
If your mother says she loves you, check it out. The most popular article on the Journal's website on Wednesday was headlined "Volvo to Switch to Electric, in First for Major Auto Firm." On its front page the next morning, the New York Times declared Volvo "the first mainstream automaker to sound the death knell of the internal combustion engine." 
Well, not exactly. By 2019, Volvo said all its cars would be hybrids or gas-electric hybrids or "mild" gas-electric hybrids -- i.e., most will continue to have internal combustion engines. 
"This announcement marks the end of the solely combustion engine-powered car," is how Volvo chief executive Hakan Samuelsson actually put it. 
Volvo, unlike just about every major car maker, doesn't even have an electric car in the market today. Its big winner is a luxury SUV, a gasoline-powered vehicle whose top-of­the-line model is further enhanced, yes, by a supplemental electric drive. 
The hybrid version of the XC90 comes with a $75,000 price tag: A customer who wants a hybrid is also presumed to want the 19-speaker, 1,400-watt sound system, the self-parking package and every other option Volvo can stuff into a $75,000 SUV. 
Therein lies the real point. Volvo's announcement signals nothing about the electric-car future and everything about Volvo's niche marketing. 
Not even Volvo could have expected the bounty of free media it won this week. The Swedish company clearly left more impression on American psyches than it ever did on American pocketbooks. In its best years in the 1980s and the mid-2000s, it never broke 0.8% of the U.S. market. 
Its brand image as a virtuous innovator survives from the day when it heavily promoted Volvo safety. But Volvo-like safety has long since become the price of admission in the car business, so Volvo has been deliberately rebranding its niche -- and its ambitions are entirely wrapped up in being a niche player -- as a technology icon. 
"It is not just bundling a lot of technology together to have a lot of gadgets in the car. It is important to deliver smart functionality and connectivity," Mr. Samuelsson explained back in 2014. 
But something else is also going on. Volvo is still run out of Sweden. Its chief is Swedish. But the Volvo car business has been owned by China's Geely since 2010. 
Volvo's biggest market now is China. Starting in 18 months, China's auto makers will be subject to an increasingly onerous California-style "zero-emission vehicle" mandate. 
In fact, only through the intervention of Angela Merkel, the German leader who knows a thing or two about green excess, was the timeline delayed from 2018. Companies will have to build and sell electric cars in growing numbers (starting with 8% of total output) in order to be free to sell the vehicles Chinese customers are most likely to buy. 
To repeat a sore point, if the goal is to reduce greenhouse gases, passenger cars are not the place to aim. Electricity production is. 
China's real goal here is to reduce its strategic vulnerability to imported oil. By mandating a switch to electric cars, it's essentially mandating a switch to a domestic fuel in plentiful supply, coal. An eager convert is the city of Taiyuan, capital of China's coal belt, which enacted a rule requiring local taxis be all-electric by 2021. 
As part of declaring its energy independence, especially its independence from the U.S. Navy, guardian of the Middle East oil routes, China also is seeking to capture world leadership in lithium-ion technology. Its electric-vehicle mandate includes a requirement that manufacturers use only locally made batteries. 
This is the China, by the way, that the media has been trying to turn into the world's conscience on global warming since Donald Trump removed the U.S. from the Paris climate agreement. 
OK, China's government can do pretty much as it wants. It can order domestic car makers, protected by a 25% import tariff, to make and sell electric cars using local batteries, likely at a loss. But even Beijing has run into political, i.e., democratic, opposition to piling on a European-style gas tax. After several attempts at raising it, gasoline remains a middle-of-the-road $4 a gallon. 
France's new president called this week for a ban on new petrol-fueled cars by 2040. Good luck with that, even in a country where taxes make gasoline $6.50 a gallon. In the U.S., Tesla, whose stock price has been plummeting in recent days, will be delivering its new Model 3 at a time of $2.24 gas, amid a complex thicket of pro-electric-car mandates that end up doing Tesla as much harm as good. 
Not even China, by central command, will be able to make mass adoption of electric cars economically viable, at least not without resort to massive mandates, subsidies and other distortions that bring their own problems. 
None of which is a problem for Volvo. Volvo isn't anticipating mass adoption of electric cars. Volvo is anticipating only that its affluent audience will associate Volvo with whatever is cool and cutting-edge in automotive technology at the moment. 
Credit: By Holman W. Jenkins, Jr. 
(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Gasoline; 

Automobile industry; 

Electric vehicles 


Company / organization 	Name: Volvo AB 

NAICS: 336111, 336120 


Title 	Volvo Discovers Electric-Vehicle Hype 
Author 	Jenkins, Holman W, Jr 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.13 
Publication year 	2017 
Publication date 	Jul 8, 2017 
column 	Business World 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 	00999660 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	Opinions, Commentary 
ProQuest document ID 	1916942608 
Document URL 	https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1916942608?accountid=14902 
Copyright 	(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further 
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Last updated 	2018-05-17 
Database 	US Newsstream 
document 72 of 376 


Oil Giant Sees a Future in Volts --- France's Total, sensing peak demand for crude oil, bets it can also produce and sell electricity 
Gold, Russell.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]14 June 2017: A.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Oil+Giant+Sees+a+Future+in+Volts+--­+France%27s+Total%2C+sensing+peak+demand+for+crude+oil%2C+bets+it+can+also+produce+and+sell+electricity&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2017­06-14&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Gold%2C+Russell&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Oil demand is expected to come under further pressure as auto makers improve fuel efficiency, electric vehicles become more popular and many countries push ahead with commitments to burn fewer carbon-intensive fuels. 

Full Text 
France's Total SA, one of the world's largest oil companies, sent its top executives to Silicon Valley last summer, where they met with tech investors and futurists. At Tesla Inc.'s Bay Area factory, a Total executive tweeted a photo of a gleaming, red Model S -- an electric car that burns no oil products at all. 
The trip was meant to "open their minds," said Total Chairman and Chief Executive Patrick Pouyanne. 
Total, like its peers Exxon Mobil Corp. and Royal Dutch Shell PLC, was built to service the world's massive demand for crude oil. Betting that demand will peak in the next few decades, Mr. Pouyanne wants to turn his company into one of the world's biggest suppliers of electricity, or what he often calls "the energy of the 21st century." 
More than any other oil major, Total sees electricity as a hedge against oil's eventual decline and is assembling a new business around it. Last summer, it paid $1 billion for a French maker of industrial batteries. It bought a small utility that supplies gas and renewable power to households in Belgium and owns a majority stake in SunPower Corp., a California company that makes high-efficiency solar panels for governments, businesses and households. 
If all goes to plan, a large piece of Total's business will one day be selling electricity to homeowners and businesses, some generated by natural gas it has extracted and some from solar panels and battery packs. By 2035, Mr. Pouyanne said, 20% of Total's energy output will be low-carbon energy such as electricity from renewable sources like wind and solar. The company recently created a "gas, renewables and power" reporting segment, which in 2016 earned about 5% of Total's $9.42 billion net operating income. 
For decades, Total and other large oil companies have employed a model pioneered by John D. Rockefeller over a century ago. They find crude, pump it from the ground, refine it into different fuels and chemicals and sell them to motorists, airlines and manufacturers. As oil prices rise and fall, different parts of this value chain make money. 
Today, a prolonged downturn in oil prices has dented revenues and profits at the world's large producers. Oil demand is expected to come under further pressure as auto makers improve fuel efficiency, electric vehicles become more popular and many countries push ahead with commitments to burn fewer carbon-intensive fuels. 
Producing and selling electricity is a very different business. While oil is a commodity that can be extracted in one locale and stored, shipped and sold to other parts of the world, electricity must be produced and consumed simultaneously. Power grids tend to be regional, so electricity generated in Europe can't be sold to Latin America. 
Most electricity is generated from coal or natural gas, and increasingly from wind, solar and other renewable energy sources. Burning oil currently generates just 4.3% of global electricity, a share that has halved in the past two decades and is expected to shrink to 2.5% by 2025, according to the International Energy Agency, a Paris-based group that monitors energy trends. 
Total is already a large producer of natural gas, a cleaner-burning fuel that is expected to overtake coal by 2040 as a source of electricity because of its flexibility and lower emissions, according to the IEA. While rivals including Exxon and Shell are also bulking up on natural gas production, Total wants to go further and enter the power business. 
Predicting and betting on shifts in energy consumption is a notoriously tricky business. U.K. energy giant BP PLC invested heavily in solar power in 2000, only to shut that business in 2011 after struggling to make money. Shell in 2008 pulled out of a large offshore wind power project near the mouth of London's Thames River after costs mounted. "Oil companies like to talk about themselves as energy companies, but they are not energy companies. They are commodity companies," said BobLukefahr, who helped develop BP's renewable strategy in the 2000s. 
Capital budgets are beholden to commodity prices and new oil ventures are costly, which make it difficult for companies to make large investments into new types of power, said Mr. Lukefahr. 
At the same time, companies should be ready for the changes brought by technology, said Adam Sieminski, who stepped down as the head of the Energy Information Administration, the statistical arm of the U.S. Energy Department, in January. "You don't want to be the best buggy-whip manufacturer in the world," he said. 
Mr. Pouyanne said Total remains "first an oil-and-gas company," and that remains a lucrative business. The company's net income last year, $6.2 billion, was second only to the much-larger Exxon among its Western oil peers. At the same time, he said some investors feel Total needs a diversification plan if governments and the public increasingly demand cleaner energy. 
"They have some questions about what will be the impact of climate change on our company. We are trying to bring them some answers," he said. 
Some of the challenges are apparent in Mr. Pouyanne's own household. He said he tried and failed to persuade his wife that they should buy an electric car. He still drives a Renault with a conventional engine. 
Most industry forecasters expect oil to remain a major source of energy fueling global economies. The IEA says consumer demand for oil will keep growing for another two decades unless governments take sharper action to curb emissions. But electricity consumption is expected to grow faster than oil -- 2% a year through 2040, compared with oil's 0.5% growth, according to the IEA. 
Underlying this shift is a global push to use fuels with lower carbon emissions. Over 140 countries have ratified an 2015 agreement struck in Paris to reduce emissions as a way to tackle climate change. Their methods generally include shifting away from oil and coal and toward energy sources like gas, renewables and even nuclear, which all generate electricity. The U.S. has since said it plans to pull out of the accord. 
Producing clean energy was much more expensive in the late 1990s and early 2000s, when oil companies conducted highly public experiments with alternative energy sources. Production costs for solar panels and other renewable energy projects have since plummeted. "Sometimes you can be wrong if you are 15 years" too soon, said Mr. Pouyanne. 
Shell last year led a consortium that won a bid to build a wind farm off the coast of Holland that could power a million homes at prices lower than competing coal and gas projects. Norwegian oil-and-gas company Statoil ASA recently announced plans to increase its spending on renewables from 5% today to at least 15% by 2030, with an emphasis on offshore wind. 
Mr. Pouyanne, 53 years old, accelerated Total's expansion into electricity after two events rattled the company. In October 2014, Total's then-CEO, Christophe de Margerie, was killed in an airplane crash in Russia. Mr. Pouyanne, who was running Total's refining and chemicals business, was quickly promoted to the top job. At the same time, a glut of oil was overwhelming demand, causing oil prices to collapse from a high of $107.26 a barrel to $53.27 by the end of the year. Total recorded a $5.7 billion loss in the final quarter of 2014, its worst quarterly result in decades, and the first quarter with Mr. Pouyanne at the helm. 
"I became CEO at the worst possible moment," he said. 
He took over a nearly century-old company with fossil fuel operations in 130 countries. Like its fellow Western oil companies, Total had large exploration, refining and chemical divisions. Mr. Pouyanne began cutting costs including the company's capital budget. Total returned to profitability in 2015 even as oil prices fell further. Oil currently trades around $46 a barrel. Mr. de Margerie, his predecessor, was outspoken about the challenges facing the oil business. At an industry conference in London in 2007, the former CEO surprised the crowd by declaring that oil-production growth forecasts were too optimistic because of depleting conventional reservoirs. 
That outlook prompted Total to begin exploring alternative energy sources. It paid $1.37 billion for a 60% stake in SunPower in 2011 and scooped up smaller stakes in early-stage clean-energy startups. 
Total's stake in SunPower has since lost more than half its market value amid a sharp decline in prices of solar panels. SunPower has posted losses for the past two years. 
Unlike oil and gas, where output can be turned up or down in response to demand, solar energy is produced only when the sun is shining. Its value to consumers and power companies is limited unless the energy can be stored. That thinking drove Mr. Pouyanne in 2016 to purchase Saft Groupe SA, a French battery maker. 
Saft supplied high-end batteries for satellites, airplanes and smart meters. While much of the battery industry focused on bringing down prices, Saft specialized in long-life and durability. When the European Space Agency sends a robotic rover to Mars in 2020, the exploration vehicle will use Saft batteries. 
Saft Chairman and CEO Ghislain Lescuyer said Saft is looking for ways to work with SunPower. While he declined to discuss details, such a partnership could produce a solar panel-and-battery combination that could compete with Tesla -- which recently acquired SolarCity Corp. -- and other companies exploring similar energy products. 
Tom Werner, SunPower's Chairman and CEO, said the company benefits from Total's focus on long-term strategy and size, even though it can be at odds with the speed and nimbleness required of a solar company. "There is no model to emulate," he said. 
Last June, Total acquired another piece of the puzzle it is trying to assemble when it paid about $200 million for Lampiris NV, a gas and renewable power retailer in Belgium. After operating for a little over a decade in the Belgian residential energy market, the company won more than one million customers. 
Now that Total controls companies that generate, store and sell electricity, Mr. Pouyanne is trying to figure out how to fit the pieces together. 
"To be clear, these are investments," he said of Total's foray into electricity. "We have to be patient." 
Credit: By Russell Gold 
(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Natural gas; 
Commodities; 

Alternative energy sources; 

Electric vehicles; 
Energy industry; 

Electricity; 
Crude oil 


Location 	California 
Company / organization 	Name: Royal Dutch Shell PLC 

NAICS: 324110, 213112, 221210; 


Name: Total SA 

NAICS: 447190, 324110, 211111; 


Name: International Energy Agency 

NAICS: 926130, 928120, 541720; 


Name: Tesla Inc 

NAICS: 336999 


Title  Oil Giant Sees a Future in Volts --- France's Total, sensing peak demand for crude oil, bets it  
can also produce and sell electricity  
Author  Gold, Russell  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.1  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Jun 14, 2017  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1909103144  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1909103144?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-24  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 73 of 376 


World News: China Sidesteps Trump on Climate 
Spegele, Brian.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]12 June 2017: A.9. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=World+News%3A+China+Sidesteps+Trump+on+Climate&title=Wall+Str 06-12&volume=&issue=&spage=A.9&au=Spegele%2C+Brian&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Since Mr. Trump's decision, a coalition of a dozen U.S. states, including California, have committed to uphold America's pledge to cut emissions 26% to 28% compared with 2005 levels. 

Full Text 
BEIJING -- China is working to keep climate-change cooperation with the U.S. alive after President Donald Trump's decision to withdraw from the Paris climate accord, even if 
that means sidestepping the White House to seek closer ties with U.S. states. 
Meetings in Beijing during the past week showed the competing agendas in U.S. energy politics and deep frustration inside China's government over Mr. Trump's decision to 
abandon what had been a rare platform for unity in the U.S.-China relationship. 

China rolled out the red carpet for California Gov. Jerry Brown, a critic of Mr. Trump's decision who arrived in China the first weekend in June to take part in an international clean-energy forum and meet provincial officials. It was Mr. Brown that President Xi Jinping later welcomed to Beijing's Great Hall of the People; U.S. Energy Secretary Rick Perry, also in town for the forum, was received by a vice premier. 
Chinese officials expressed dismay with Mr. Trump's decision. "I am so deeply disappointed," said Xie Zhenhua, China's special envoy for climate change, during a gathering with 
Mr. Brown. 
Since Mr. Trump's decision, a coalition of a dozen U.S. states, including California, have committed to uphold America's pledge to cut emissions 26% to 28% compared with 
2005 levels. 

For Beijing, working with U.S. states could burnish the image the country has sought to cultivate as an emerging global leader on climate issues. Some states can also share emissions-cutting expertise that leaders here are eager to acquire. 
Mr. Xi sent perhaps the strongest signal that he hopes to see more local-level cooperation by meeting Mr. Brown. 
Among the agreements Mr. Brown's office announced during the week included plans to coordinate emission-reduction programs with China's Ministry of Science and Technology 
and to set up a joint climate research institute between California and China's Tsinghua University. 

China is encouraging "all relevant parties to implement the Paris agreement," Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said Friday when asked about Mr. Brown's visit. 

Local U.S.-China cooperation has limits: National governments are needed to negotiate deals keeping world leaders marching in the same direction. Lacking a U.S. commitment, 
Mr. Xie, the Chinese climate envoy, used a gathering at Tsinghua University to urge U.S. and Chinese scientists and business leaders to step up cooperation. 
Mr. Brown said he hopes more states and cities will join him in opposing Mr. Trump's stance. "With Trump saying no, it's up to states and localities to say yes -- and they're 

doing that," he said. 

Mr. Perry said he supported the rights of states to choose their own paths. "My hat's off to Gov. Brown for the work that he does to promote California," he said in Beijing on 
Friday. He said he faced no pressure from those he met for the U.S. to change its mind about leaving the Paris deal. 
Mr. Perry's arrival in China early in the week was preceded by the surprise announcement last Monday by the top U.S. diplomat in China, David Rank, that he was quitting to 

protest against Mr. Trump's climate position. Mr. Rank, who was charge d'affaires, had been expected to accompany Mr. Perry in meetings with Chinese officials. 

Mr. Perry explained the administration's position on energy as an effort to balance economic growth with cleaning up the environment. He expressed support for fossil fuels, 
including coal and natural gas -- both of which are abundant in the U.S. and could be sold to China in greater quantities. 
The Trump administration says the U.S. has done more to reduce emissions than other top emitters, including China, outside agreements under the Paris accord. The White 

House didn't respond to a request for comment on the China-California talks. During the Obama administration, China and the U.S. looked to broad agreement on climate change as a chance to showcase joint purpose in an often fraught relationship. 
China and other major emitters said they would follow through on their commitments despite Mr. Trump's decision. 
How aggressively Beijing moves to cut emission levels after they peak by about 2030 -- as China has pledged to do -- may depend on whether the U.S. is also on board. 
Reaching the global goal of limiting the increase in global temperatures to 2 degrees Celsius above preindustrial levels would require significant cuts by China. 

The dueling messages from Messrs. Perry and Brown contrasted with the united front Chinese officials present on major policy moves. 
Zhou Dadi, vice president of the Beijing-backed Energy Research Institute, said China recognizes that the U.S. system allows states and cities to shape their own positions on 
the Paris commitments. 

"In the United States, local governments can play a more important role," Mr. Zhou said, drawing a distinction with China's more centralized decision-making. Credit: By Brian Spegele 
(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Emissions;  
Climate change;  
Paris Agreement  
Location  United States--US; China  
People  Xi Jinping; Trump, Donald J  
Title  World News: China Sidesteps Trump on Climate  
Author  Spegele, Brian  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.9  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Jun 12, 2017  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1908255357  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1908255357?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-24  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 74 of 376 


World News -- China's World: Don't Count on China as the World's Next Climate Crusader 
Browne, Andrew.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]07 June 2017: A.16. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=World+News+-­+China%27s+World%3A+Don%27t+Count+on+China+as+the+World%27s+Next+Climate+Crusader&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2017-06­07&volume=&issue=&spage=A.16&au=Browne%2C+Andrew&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
By 2020, every Chinese coal-fired power station will be required to achieve an efficiency standard so high that not a single U.S. plant could meet it today, according to a report by the Center for American Progress, a liberal think tank. [...]his monumentally ambitious Silk Road plan to build trading infrastructure from Asia to Europe via the Middle East and Africa will prolong the life of some of the heaviest emitters making steel, glass, aluminum and cement -- and export the country's carbon problem. 

Full Text 
BEIJING -- For years, a wide spectrum of groups in the U.S. lectured, cajoled and entreated China to go green. 
Multinationals and nonprofits teamed up with Chinese environmental groups to promote eco-friendly causes; Coca-Cola restored forests in the upper Yangtze. U.S. labs offered scientific support. Academics collaborated on research. The former Treasury secretary, Hank Paulson, championed China's disappearing wetlands, a haven for migratory birds. The effort amplified voices within China demanding the government take action. It was, said Orville Schell, a longtime China watcher and environmentalist, "the most effective 
missionary work in the past couple hundred years." 
It is an irony of historic proportions how the roles have reversed: China, the world's worst polluter by far, is now a convert on climate change while the White House under Donald Trump has turned apostate. In pulling out of the 2015 Paris climate-change agreement, Mr. Trump has repudiated a signal accomplishment of the Obama presidency: persuading Beijing to become a 
partner in the effort to prevent the planet from heating up to the point of no return. Without China's support, the Paris deal might have fallen apart. 
Mr. Paulson said he was dismayed and disappointed. "We have left a void for others to fill." 
Can China step in? 
When it comes to the environment, China is still torn by conflicting priorities. It has installed more solar and wind capacity than any other nation -- and plans to invest another 

$360 billion in renewable energy between now and 2020. 
The economy is rebalancing away from heavy industry and manufacturing toward much cleaner services and consumption. 
Coal consumption has declined for three straight years. On current trends, many scientists expect that China will reach peak carbon emissions well before its target date of 2030 

under the Paris accord. Yet Beijing remains committed to rapid growth. And coal is still king. 
This winter was particularly hard on the lungs. A spending splurge meant Beijing's average pollution levels last year were double the national standard set by the State Council. 
America's absence from the Paris accord weakens the global fight against climate change, while strengthening China's position in clean technologies of the future. Beijing seems 

eager to seize the moral high ground. President Xi Jinping has vowed to "protect" the climate-change agreement. 

By 2020, every Chinese coal-fired power station will be required to achieve an efficiency standard so high that not a single U.S. plant could meet it today, according to a report 
by the Center for American Progress, a liberal think tank. 
Meanwhile, Mr. Trump has scrapped the Obama-era Clean Power Plan to curb power-plant emissions. 
For much of the past four decades, China has pursued go-for-broke industrialization. Then Beijing's political calculus shifted. Urban residents rebelled at the smog, and when 

protests threatened social stability, the government began to embrace a green agenda. 

That said, among Communist Party leaders the fear of environmental protests is matched by apprehension about the consequences of slower development. They have staked 
their credibility on China catching up to, and overtaking, America. 
President Xi proclaims "supply-side reform," by which he means shutting down overcapacity in heavily polluting state industries. 
On the other hand, his monumentally ambitious Silk Road plan to build trading infrastructure from Asia to Europe via the Middle East and Africa will prolong the life of some of 

the heaviest emitters making steel, glass, aluminum and cement -- and export the country's carbon problem. 

China may be going green, but it isn't there yet. On the environment as in trade, another area where Mr. Trump seems determined to abandon America's global leadership, don't look to China to supply the crusading zeal. Credit: By Andrew Browne 
(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Coal;  
Climate change  
Location  China  
People  Xi Jinping  
Title  World News -- China's World: Don't Count on China as the World's Next Climate Crusader  
Author  Browne, Andrew  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.16  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Jun 7, 2017  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1906340197  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1906340197?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2019-03-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 75 of 376 


Trump's Climate Shift: States Stick With Climate Pact Goals 
Lazo, Alejandro.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]03 June 2017: A.5. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Trump%27s+Climate+Shift%3A+States+Stick+With+Climate+Pact+Go 06-03&volume=&issue=&spage=A.5&au=Lazo%2C+Alejandro&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg, the United Nations secretary-general's special envoy for cities and climate change, said through an adviser on Friday that those three states, along with a coalition of at least 100 businesses and 30 cities would on Monday submit a letter of intent to the U.N. indicating the coalition would meet the U.S. goals through their own commitments. 

Full Text 
SAN FRANCISCO -- A day after President Donald Trump's decision to pull out of the Paris climate accord, states and cities around the country said they would adhere to their own aggressive climate policies. 
Twenty states and Washington, D.C., have adopted their own greenhouse gas emission targets, according to the Center for Climate and Energy Solutions, and some press beyond the U.S. commitment under the accord, which sought to reduce greenhouse emissions 26% to 28% below 2005 levels by 2025. 
California Gov. Jerry Brown is encouraging states to pursue their own climate standards, as well as developing his own international climate agenda and pushing tougher standards than the federal government had under the Obama administration. 
Following the Thursday announcement, Mr. Brown, New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo and Washington state Gov. Jay Inslee said they would form a new coalition of states committed to upholding the American side of the Paris treaty deal. 
The governors called the coalition the United States Climate Alliance, which they said will "act as a forum to sustain and strengthen existing climate programs, promote the sharing of information and best practices, and implement new programs to reduce carbon emissions from all sectors of the economy." 
Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg, the United Nations secretary-general's special envoy for cities and climate change, said through an adviser on Friday that those three states, along with a coalition of at least 100 businesses and 30 cities would on Monday submit a letter of intent to the U.N. indicating the coalition would meet the U.S. goals through their own commitments. 
Not all states were upset with Mr. Trump's decision. 
In West Virginia, Sen. Shelley Moore Capito said the withdrawal would benefit the state's ailing coal industry. "West Virginians have suffered tremendous economic calamity as a result of the Obama administration's anti-coal agenda . . . ," the Republican senator said in a statement. "President Trump is standing with our West Virginia workers and businesses to keep jobs in our state." 
The president said he left the agreement with the hope of boosting American industry and independence and called his decision a "reassertion of our sovereignty." 
Twenty-nine states have adopted renewable portfolio standards, which require utilities to sell a certain amount, or percentage, of renewable electricity, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures. 
"States have been doing this for a long time and long before there has been consideration at the federal level," said Glen Andersen, energy program director at the NCSL. 
Other states are ramping up their renewable-energy generation because prices are competitive and such projects add jobs, said Rachel Cleetus, the lead economist and climate policy manager at the Union of Concerned Scientists, a nonprofit. 
Texas, for instance, has become a leader in renewable-energy production, even without a legislative mandate. The state, which has a quarter of all the wind power in America, is getting 12.6% of its electricity from wind, according to the American Wind Energy Association. 
Valerie Bauerlein and Jim Carlton contributed to this article. 
Credit: By Alejandro Lazo 
(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Alternative energy; 

Climate change; 
International agreements; 


Environmental policy;  
Emission standards  
Location  United States--US  
People  Inslee, Jay; Cuomo, Andrew M; Brown, Edmund G Jr (Jerry); Trump, Donald J  
Title  Trump's Climate Shift: States Stick With Climate Pact Goals  
Author  Lazo, Alejandro  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.5  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Jun 3, 2017  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1905116508  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1905116508?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-24  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 76 of 376 


Trump Skips Climate Church 
Jenkins, Holman W, Jr.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]03 June 2017: A.13. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Trump+Skips+Climate+Church&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=009 06-03&volume=&issue=&spage=A.13&au=Jenkins%2C+Holman+W%2C+Jr&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
By the shot-in-the-dark estimates of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, it's even possible the rest of the century will bring little warming anyway. Because the unenforceable cuts agreed to in Paris would be a rounding error even if carried out. 

Full Text 
The business case for the Paris agreement has nothing to do with climate change. It goes like this: It is better to be part of any confab than outside of it. Like saluting the flag or bowing your head in church, there is no cost to being insincere, but there is a cost to not going along. 
Let us understand something: 195 countries will not be dragged kicking and screaming to sign any agreement that imposes a cost on them. Such deals exist only because they provide an international imprimatur to what politicians were going to do anyway. 
The oil countries like Saudi Arabia and Norway signed. They plan to keep producing oil. India and China plan to grow energy consumption until it is similar to the per capita consumption of the developed countries, at which point it will level off. 
The U.S. and Europe intend to keep subsidizing green energy as long as domestic voters give them permission to do so, because the whole point of being in office is to redirect resources to interest groups best able to reward politicians for doling out the goodies. 
The Paris countries agreed to meet certain emissions targets, and claimed an intent to hold a planetary temperature increase to less than 2 degrees Celsius. 
Not only are the emission targets unenforceable, they have no intelligible relation to the temperature goal according to the very iffy science. By the shot-in-the-dark estimates of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, it's even possible the rest of the century will bring little warming anyway. 
And that's good. Because the unenforceable cuts agreed to in Paris would be a rounding error even if carried out. 
In the 30 years since global warming became a daily concern of the newspapers, one lesson has been reliably demonstrated for policy participants: There is no appetite in the body politic for the kinds of energy taxes and prohibitions needed to make a meaningful change in atmospheric CO2. 
We won't dwell on the media hysteria since the Trump decision, or why many of you, dear readers, in defiance of your own reason, will participate in the hysteria even when you know better. Human beings are social animals. When a mob is forming, we experience high anxiety if we're not part of it. 
Agreements like Paris arguably aim at the wrong target anyway. Only when technology can meet mankind's energy demand at competitive cost will low-carbon energy prevail. Governments would be wise to invest in basic energy research rather than throwing money at energy technologies that are viable only as long as the subsidies keep flowing. But the latter is what brings in the political bacon. 
Oh well. Hypocrisy is the universal solvent of social relations. This also explains the other big climate story of the day, which reporters have given themselves hypoxia trying to inflate the significance of. We're referring to the vote by 62% of Exxon shareholders, led by giant funds Vanguard, Fidelity and BlackRock, to ask the company to explain how the Paris temperature target would affect its business. 
For 30 years there has been push-and-pull in politics over climate change. During every nanosecond of that time, at least while markets were open, investors were repricing energy shares in light of the possibility of climate change legislation. 
Exxon has nothing new or useful to tell investors in this regard. Would a carbon tax be good for bad for the company? It would accelerate the displacement of coal by natural gas, which Exxon produces. Is an electric-car battery in the offing that would go 300 miles and be rechargeable in a five-minute stop at a charging station? Probably not. In which case, even a sizable carbon tax would be unlikely to make much dent in the 8% of global emissions caused by passenger cars. Americans bought 143 billion gallons of gas last year when the price was $2.25; they bought 133 billion gallons in 2012 when the price was $3.64. 
"Our patience is not infinite," huffed a statement by BlackRock, the $5.4 trillion Wall Street fund, as it voted for Exxon's climate penance. 
This gesture, of surpassing meaninglessness, is a case of one prominent institution trying to buff up its reputation for church attendance at the expense of another. 
And yet, regardless of Mr. Trump's Paris decision, only one large national economy has been reporting sizable emissions declines, thanks to fracking. The same economy may soon also be able to take credit for slowing China's prodigious emissions growth thanks to natural gas exports to displace Chinese coal. That country is the U.S. under the unthinkable monster Donald Trump. Whatever evolution toward a lower-carbon energy system takes place in the future, it will also certainly be driven overwhelmingly by technology and markets, not policy. 
Credit: By Holman W. Jenkins, Jr. 
(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Climate change;  
International agreements;  
Emission standards;  
Excise taxes;  
Global warming;  
Energy policy  
Location  United States--US  
People  Trump, Donald J  
Company / organization  Name: Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change  
NAICS: 928120, 541712  
Title  Trump Skips Climate Church  
Author  Jenkins, Holman W, Jr  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.13  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Jun 3, 2017  
column  Business World  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1905115647  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1905115647?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2019-03-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 77 of 376 


China Is a Highly Suspect Leader on Climate Change 
Taplin, Nathaniel.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]03 June 2017: B.10. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=China+Is+a+Highly+Suspect+Leader+on+Climate+Change&title=Wa 06-03&volume=&issue=&spage=B.10&au=Taplin%2C+Nathaniel&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Cheap capital and high state-mandated "on-grid" power prices encouraged massive investment in renewable power; wind projects ate up close to $100 billion from 2008 to 2015. 

Full Text 
[Financial Analysis and Commentary] 
And then there were two. 
With the U.S. now intent on leaving the Paris climate agreement, the European Union and China, the world's other two large carbon-dioxide emitters, must now lead the charge against global warming. 
But beware predictions of a green-tech bonanza in China. Though the country has invested enormously in clean power over the past decade, returns -- whether financial or in power generated -- have been strikingly low. As with global trade, China needs to fix market distortions at home before it can become a credible leader on climate change. 
The motivation is there. China is both the world's largest source of greenhouse gases and a country highly vulnerable to climate change. It is overpopulated, particularly in coastal areas, its northern aquifers are running dry at an alarming rate, and pollution is already intense. The opportunity seems rich: Wind power accounted for less than 4% of power generated last year; solar, barely 1%. 
But vestigial energy-price controls and the powerful State Grid continue to hold back progress. Cheap capital and high state-mandated "on-grid" power prices encouraged massive investment in renewable power; wind projects ate up close to $100 billion from 2008 to 2015. But the grid itself has little incentive to buy such pricey and unreliable electricity. 
Despite some progress with State Grid over the past decade -- fewer completely disconnected wind farms -- China still generates far more wind power than it transmits. Last year, the gap was about 50 billion kilowatt-hours, enough to power a small European country. 
Coal's resilience is another big problem. Although its share of China's electricity mix is declining -- slowly -- investment in coal power plants is rising. The problem, once again, lies with a mismatch in regulated prices. As coal prices slid 60% in 2014 and 2015, the regulated price of coal-generated power stayed level, widening generator margins and stimulating investment. After falling 30% when coal prices were high from 2010 to 2012, annual investment in coal power has rebounded nearly 20%. Last year, it hit 117 billion yuan ($26 billion), the highest since 2010. 
China has made some real progress on tackling water pollution and raising standards for heavy polluters such as refineries, particularly in the wealthy eastern regions. 
But as in the financial sector, capital continues to be directed into unproductive areas. Opportunities still exist -- in nuclear power, water conservation and energy-efficient building technology, for example -- but investors expecting an abundance of profitable green-power projects will be disappointed. 
Credit: By Nathaniel Taplin 
(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Climate change; 
Paris Agreement; 

Heard on the street (wsj) 


Location 	United States--US; China 
Title 	China Is a Highly Suspect Leader on Climate Change 
Author 	Taplin, Nathaniel 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages  B.10  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Jun 3, 2017  
column  Heard on the Street  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1905115643  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1905115643?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-10-16  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 78 of 376 


Trump's Climate Shift: Move Unlikely to Alter Companies' Course --- Shareholder demands and state rules have already pushed firms on climate change 
Gold, Russell; Cook, Lynn.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]02 June 2017: A.5. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Trump%27s+Climate+Shift%3A+Move+Unlikely+to+Alter+Companies% --+Shareholder+demands+and+state+rules+have+already+pushed+firms+on+climate+change&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2017-06­02&volume=&issue=&spage=A.5&au=Gold%2C+Russell%3BCook%2C+Lynn&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Ford Motor Co. said it was still committed to technology investments to make its vehicles emit less carbon dioxide, including shorter-term moves to improve the efficiency of the internal combustion engine, and longer-term plans to develop affordable fuel cells and enhanced batteries to create electric vehicles that can travel longer. 

Full Text 
The Trump administration's withdrawal from the Paris agreement heralds a decisive change in U.S. climate policy, but many corporate leaders say it will have little immediate impact on their investments and strategies. 
President Donald Trump said the U.S. will begin negotiations to either re-enter the accord or start a new deal on "terms that are fair to the United States, its businesses, its workers, its people, its taxpayers." 
Some mining companies, including Murray Energy Corp., the country's largest privately held coal miner, hailed the decision, saying the climate rules would have threatened jobs and economic growth. 
But a number of major corporations and chief executives expressed disappointment in the move, including Dow Chemical Co. and Microsoft Corp. as well as the heads of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Alphabet Inc.'s Google. 
"Today's decision is a setback for the environment and for the U.S.'s leadership position in the world," Goldman Chief Executive Lloyd Blankfein said in his first tweet ever. 
Many large companies said they wouldn't change course, and their reasons are diverse. Companies are responding to customer and shareholder demands to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions. Many operate in states and countries that are putting in place climate rules and thus face pressures beyond the U.S. government. 
Firms are buying natural gas and renewable electricity that emit less pollutants because they are becoming cheaper. And many are making long-term capital investments to reduce their carbon footprints with an eye toward future decades, not the current election cycle. 
Exxon Mobil Corp., the largest U.S. oil producer, has said it wants a consistent set of rules, and favors remaining in the Paris Agreement. "We need a framework like that to address the challenge of climate change and the risk of climate change," Chief Executive Darren Woods said at the company's annual meeting on Wednesday, where 62% of shareholders voted for a resolution to pressure Exxon to share more information about how climate change could affect its business. 
General Electric Co. has spent billions to make technologies that reduce energy consumption a core part of its business. "Disappointed with today's decision on the Paris Agreement," GE Chief Executive Jeffrey Immelt said via Twitter. "Climate change is real. Industry must now lead and not depend on government." 
Ford Motor Co. said it was still committed to technology investments to make its vehicles emit less carbon dioxide, including shorter-term moves to improve the efficiency of the internal combustion engine, and longer-term plans to develop affordable fuel cells and enhanced batteries to create electric vehicles that can travel longer. Much of the auto industry is on a similar course. 
Some companies support leaving the agreement because they see it as a way to jump-start industries weighed down by environmental regulations. Murray Energy's controlling owner, Robert Murray, has been a strong backer of Mr. Trump. "In following through on his promise, President Trump is supporting America's uncompromising values, saving coal jobs, and promoting low-cost, reliable electricity for Americans and the rest of the world," he said. 
Peabody Energy Corp., a coal producer in St. Louis, supported the decision. "We believe that abiding by the accord, without significant changes, would have substantially impacted the U.S. economy, increased electricity costs and required the power sector to rely on less diverse and more intermittent energy." 
Adam Green, an analyst for World Steel Dynamics, a steel-industry consulting firm, said Mr. Trump's decision won't immediately affect the industry, but "it lifts some of the veiled uncertainty" about the cost of complying with future regulations. 
U.S. energy-related carbon emissions are at their lowest level since 1992, according to federal statistics. This is mostly because the U.S. electricity system has replaced a large amount of coal-fired power with natural gas and renewables. 
American Electric Power Co., one of the largest utility companies in the U.S., has been shifting toward more gas, wind and solar because the moves are popular with customers and provide increasingly inexpensive power, said Chief Executive Nick Akins. He said it was a mistake for the U.S. to exit from the agreement. 
Thomas Gryta, Bradley Olson, Timothy Puko and Bob Tita contributed to this article. 
Credit: By Russell Gold and Lynn Cook 
(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Climate change; Environmental policy; Paris Agreement; Business community  
Location  United States--US  

Company / organization 
Title Trump's Climate Shift: Move Unlikely to Alter Companies' Course --- Shareholder demands and state rules have already pushed firms on climate change 
Name:  Ford Motor Co  
NAICS:  336111, 333924, 336390;  
Name:  Goldman Sachs Group Inc  
NAICS:  523110, 523120;  
Name:  Dow Chemical Co  
NAICS:  325199, 325211, 325180;  
Name:  Murray Energy Corp  
NAICS:  212112  


Author  Gold, Russell; Cook, Lynn  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.5  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Jun 2, 2017  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1904703676  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1904703676?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-24  

Database US Newsstream 
document 79 of 376 


Paris Exit: Less Than Meets The Eye 
Jakab, Spencer.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]02 June 2017: A.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Paris+Exit%3A+Less+Than+Meets+The+Eye&title=Wall+Street+Jou 06-02&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Jakab%2C+Spencer&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
[...]Exxon shareholders, a majority of whom voted this week on a nonbinding proposal calling for it to reveal the impact of complying with climate-change rules, might have been placated. 

Full Text 
[Financial Analysis and Commentary] 
Investors will feel the impact of the U.S.'s pullout from the Paris climate agreement in surprising and counterintuitive ways. 
Energy giants Exxon Mobil and ConocoPhillips, both of which supported the agreement, may get hit on the margin, even though the conventional wisdom has it that they would 

be winners. 

Meanwhile, future greenhouse gas emissions may not be too different from what they might have been under a Clinton administration. Market forces, such as cheap natural gas, 
will have a bigger effect than the agreement would have. 
Meanwhile, U.S. regulations aimed at meeting Paris goals weren't burdensome for all. Exxon Mobil, for example, stood to benefit. Stricter U.S. climate rules may have produced 

a slight drag on the demand for oil, a global commodity of which Exxon is the sixth-largest producer. But it would have been a boon to U.S. natural gas, a mostly landlocked 

market where Exxon is the top producer. 
Furthermore, rules mandating the capture of greenhouse gas methane, which escapes some U.S. oil wells, hurts smaller competitors far more than Exxon or its peers. Big oil's 
wells are in large fields near pipelines where the methane already can be captured and turned into fuels. 

Finally, Exxon shareholders, a majority of whom voted this week on a nonbinding proposal calling for it to reveal the impact of complying with climate-change rules, might have 
been placated. 

The trajectory of U.S. greenhouse gas emissions under President Donald Trump's policies may be surprisingly mild. 
Under the auspices of the Paris agreement, the Obama administration pledged to reduce U.S. greenhouse gas emissions to between 26% and 28% below the 2005 level by 
2025. Much of that already is well under way, though, as a result of factors outside of any president's control: slower growth following the financial crisis, the shale gas 
revolution that has replaced a third of coal use and shifting driving habits. 

The Rhodium Group calculates that the U.S. still will come close to a 17% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions as soon as 2020 but then stall. 
Other policies will do relatively little to meet climate goals. For example, state and federal tax breaks encourage electric-vehicle sales, but they are just 1% of all passenger 

vehicles sold today. Even if they reach 5% of all vehicles on the road by 2025, the reduction in total U.S. greenhouse gas emissions would be about half a percentage point, 
holding all else equal. 
Other Obama policies may not have been as effective as they seemed. Natural gas should continue to replace older coal plants as long as the relative prices of the fuels remain 

around today's levels, though perhaps more slowly than before. And auto makers would likely have negotiated loopholes in efficiency rules. 

There is little doubt that some U.S. industries can celebrate, but governments around the world, and even in some U.S. states, may force U.S. companies to adhere to stricter 
rules anyway. 
Credit: By Spencer Jakab 

(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Heard on the street (wsj); 

Paris Agreement 


Location 	United States--US 
Company / organization 	Name: Exxon Mobil Corp 
NAICS: 447110, 211111 
Title  Paris Exit: Less Than Meets The Eye  
Author  Jakab, Spencer  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.1  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Jun 2, 2017  
column  Heard on the Street  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1904703675  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1904703675?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-10-16  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 80 of 376 


Trump Quits Global Climate Accord --- President says he will either demand better terms or craft a new deal to aid U.S. industry 
Stokols, Eli.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]02 June 2017: A.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Trump+Quits+Global+Climate+Accord+--­+President+says+he+will+either+demand+better+terms+or+craft+a+new+deal+to+aid+U.S.+industry&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2017-06­02&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Stokols%2C+Eli&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Pittsburgh Mayor Bill Peduto, a Democrat, wrote on Twitter that despite Mr. Trump saying he represented the people of his city, most voters there supported Hillary Clinton in the presidential election. 

Full Text 
President Donald Trump said Thursday he will withdraw the U.S. from the Paris climate accord in an effort to boost the nation's industry and independence, making a dramatic shift in policy despite intense lobbying from business leaders and close allies. 
"I was elected to represent the citizens of Pittsburgh, not Paris," Mr. Trump said, calling the decision a "reassertion of our sovereignty." 
Mr. Trump said he would begin negotiations to either re-enter the Paris agreement under new terms or craft a new deal that he judges fair to the U.S. and its workers. 
Several countries immediately rejected that idea. During a phone call Thursday, President Emmanuel Macron of France told Mr. Trump that the Paris agreement can't be changed, and he issued a joint statement with the leaders of Germany and Italy that the accord "cannot be renegotiated." 
Mr. Trump, framing his decision mostly in economic and political terms, pointed to the agreement's lesser requirements for the world's other leading carbon emitters, China and India. He voiced his concern for protecting the environment and eschewed any reiteration of his past claims that climate change isn't real, but he said his decision is rooted in protecting the country's interests. 
"This agreement is less about the climate and more about other countries gaining a financial advantage" over the U.S., the GOP president said. 
Mr. Trump's action represents a 180-degree turn from the environmental agenda of his Democratic predecessor, former President Barack Obama, whose administration helped orchestrate the agreement, which pledged the U.S. to reduce carbon emissions. Mr. Trump's decision was cheered by some domestic industries, notably coal and oil-and-gas companies, including Murray Energy Corp., the country's largest privately held coal miner. 
But some large U.S. corporations opposed the move, including Exxon Mobil Corp., General Electric Co. and Apple Inc., whose chief executives all publicly argued in favor of remaining in the pact. After Mr. Trump's announcement, Tesla Inc. Chief Executive Elon Musk and Walt Disney Co. CEO Robert Iger said they would withdraw from the president's advisory councils. 
Some big companies said exiting the deal would have little immediate impact on their investments and strategies because they are facing customer and shareholder demands to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions. They also operate in other countries, and in U.S. states, where climate rules remain a fact of life, so they continue to face government pressure. 
The decision on the climate deal came after months of tense debates within a divided West Wing and intense speculation in the 48 hours leading up to the announcement. 
Secretary of State Rex Tillerson pressed the president to keep the U.S. in the Paris accord, as did Defense Secretary Jim Mattis and leaders at the Pentagon, who have long viewed combating climate change as a matter of national security. 
Senior adviser Steve Bannon and Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt led the internal push to persuade Mr. Trump to follow through on his campaign promise to withdraw from the Paris accord. Following the president's speech, Mr. Pruitt closed out the ceremony by praising Mr. Trump for his "unflinching commitment to put America first," and he characterized the withdrawal as a "historic restoration of American economic independence." 
Lawmakers' reactions split largely along party lines, with many Republicans saying Mr. Trump's decision would unshackle domestic industry and create jobs. 
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R., Ky.) said Mr. Trump's decision dealt "another significant blow to the Obama administration's assault on domestic energy production and jobs." 
But many Democrats criticized the Paris exit, saying Mr. Trump was relinquishing leadership on an important issue. 
Sen. Chuck Schumer of New York, the chamber's Democratic leader, said the decision to withdraw was a "devastating failure of historic proportions." 
Pittsburgh Mayor Bill Peduto, a Democrat, wrote on Twitter that despite Mr. Trump saying he represented the people of his city, most voters there supported Hillary Clinton in the presidential election. "I can assure you that we will follow the guidelines of the Paris Agreement for our people, our economy & future," he wrote. 
Although the final decision remained in doubt right up until the president's emphatic statement Thursday afternoon, Mr. Trump had drafted the resolution to withdraw from the Paris agreement two weeks ago, according to a person familiar with the internal deliberations that pitted Messrs. Bannon and Pruitt against much of Mr. Trump's economic and national-security advisers, as well as his own family. 
But the president was resolute, telling his team that there were too many costs and that the U.S. would no longer be laughed at for participating in such deals, a person familiar with the matter said. 
He said he wanted to deliver a campaign promise to "my people," meaning his base of voters, this person said. "He looked at this like it was a union deal -- slap them in the face, and then renegotiate," the person said. 
Mr. Obama issued a statement Thursday standing by the Paris accord and the U.S. role in forging it. 
Renegotiating the agreement or entering under new terms could be very difficult in practice, since nearly all nations agreed on the deal in 2015, and leading economies have said they would continue with the original deal if the U.S. leaves. 
Other countries -- led by European nations -- place a much higher importance on cooperation to curb climate change, so Mr. Trump's move could reduce his flexibility in working with world leaders, especially if the withdrawal from the Paris agreement affects public attitude toward the U.S. 
"It will undercut the trust that other countries have in the U.S. in entering into agreements -- trade agreements, agreements on security issues, you name it," said David Waskow, director of the international climate initiative at the World Resources Institute, an environmental think tank. 
Backing away from climate commitments could also shift some investments in potentially lucrative green-energy technology away from the U.S. and toward economic rivals, including China, which pledged massive investment in renewable energy through the pact. 
"It is going to lead to major corporations and nations partnering with China," said Paul Bledsoe, a former climate official in the Clinton administration and lecturer at American University in Washington. 
A Trump administration official said Thursday the president is sincere in supporting a possible renegotiation of the deal or a process for the U.S. to re-enter under different terms, which could include less ambitious emissions targets, but offered little additional clarity on what concessions might satisfy the administration and how it planned to engage the nearly 200 countries involved in a renegotiation. 
The Paris accord allowed participating countries to determine their own set of emissions targets and plans to reach them with the broader goal of keeping average global temperatures from rising more than 2 degrees Celsius, or 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit, above preindustrial levels. That level is considered by climate scientists to be the danger threshold, beyond which damage to the planet would become irreversible. 
The U.S. had pledged to cut greenhouse-gas emissions by 26% to 28% from 2005 levels by 2025. The U.S. is the world's second-largest emitter of carbon, behind China, which has reaffirmed its own commitment to meeting its targets under the Paris accord. 
William Mauldin, Russell Gold, Janet Hook and Michael C. Bender contributed to this article. 
(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: Leaving Paris: Good Move or Terrible Error?" -- WSJ June 7, 2017) 
Credit: By Eli Stokols 
(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Leadership; 

Political campaigns; 
Presidents; 
Emissions; 

Climate change; 
Natural gas utilities; 
Paris Agreement 


Location 	United States--US; China; Pittsburgh Pennsylvania 
People 	Obama, Barack; Trump, Donald J; Iger, Robert; Macron, Emmanuel; Trump, Donald J 
Company / organization 	Name: Murray Energy Corp 

NAICS: 212112; 

Name: Republican Party 

NAICS: 813940; 

Name: General Electric Co 

NAICS: 334512, 334519, 332510, 334290; 


Name: Tesla Inc 

NAICS: 336999; 

Name: Apple Inc 

NAICS: 511210, 334111, 334220; 


Name: Exxon Mobil Corp  
NAICS: 447110, 211111  
Title  Trump Quits Global Climate Accord --- President says he will either demand better terms or  
craft a new deal to aid U.S. industry  
Author  Stokols, Eli  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.1  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Jun 2, 2017  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1904698258  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1904698258?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-24  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 81 of 376 


Paris Climate Discord 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]01 June 2017: A.16. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Paris+Climate+Discord&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660& 06-01&volume=&issue=&spage=A.16&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
According to a 2014 Manhattan Institute study, the average cost of residential electricity in 2012 was 12 cents per kilowatt hour in the U.S. but an average 26 cents in the European Union and 35 cents in Germany. Meeting the goals would require the Environmental Protection Agency to impose stringent emissions controls on vast stretches of the economy including steel production, farm soil management and enteric fermentation (i.e., cow flatulence). 

Full Text 
President Trump and his advisers are debating whether to withdraw the U.S. from the Paris climate accord, and if he does the fury will be apocalyptic -- start building arks for the catastrophic flood. The reality is that withdrawing is in America's economic interest and won't matter much to the climate. 
President Obama signed the agreement last September, albeit by ducking the two-thirds majority vote in the Senate required under the Constitution for such national commitments. The pact includes a three-year process for withdrawal, which Mr. Trump could short-circuit by also pulling out of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. 
Paris was supposed to address the failures of the 1997 Kyoto protocol, which Bill Clinton signed but George W. Bush refused to implement amid similar outrage. The Kyoto episode is instructive because the U.S. has since reduced emissions faster than much of Europe thanks to business innovation -- namely, hydraulic fracturing that is replacing coal with natural gas. 
While legally binding, Kyoto's CO2 emissions targets weren't strictly enforced. European countries that pursued aggressive reductions were engaging in economic masochism. According to a 2014 Manhattan Institute study, the average cost of residential electricity in 2012 was 12 cents per kilowatt hour in the U.S. but an average 26 cents in the European Union and 35 cents in Germany. The average price of electricity in the EU soared 55% from 2005 to 2013. 
Yet Germany's emissions have increased in the last two years as more coal is burned to compensate for reduced nuclear energy and unreliable solar and wind power. Last year coal made up 40% of Germany's power generation compared to 30% for renewables, while state subsidies to stabilize the electric grid have grown five-fold since 2012. 
But the climate believers tried again in Paris, this time with goals that are supposedly voluntary. China and India offered benchmarks pegged to GDP growth, which means they can continue their current energy plans. China won't even begin reducing emissions until 2030 and in the next five years it will use more coal. 
President Obama, meanwhile, committed the U.S. to reducing emissions by between 26% and 28% below 2005 levels by 2025. This would require extreme changes in energy use. Even Mr. Obama's bevy of anti-carbon regulations would get the U.S. to a mere 45% of its target. 
Meeting the goals would require the Environmental Protection Agency to impose stringent emissions controls on vast stretches of the economy including steel production, farm soil management and enteric fermentation (i.e., cow flatulence). Don't laugh -- California's Air Resources Board is issuing regulations to curb bovine burping to meet its climate goals. 
Advocates in the White House for remaining in Paris claim the U.S. has the right to unilaterally reduce Mr. Obama's emissions commitments. They say stay in and avoid the political meltdown while rewriting the U.S. targets. 
But Article 4, paragraph 11 of the accord says "a party may at any time adjust its existing nationally determined contribution with a view to enhancing its level of ambition." There is no comparable language permitting a reduction in national targets. 
Rest assured that the Sierra Club and other greens will sue under the Section 115 "international air pollution" provision of the Clean Air Act to force the Trump Administration to enforce the Paris standards. The "voluntary" talk will vanish amid the hunt for judges to rule that Section 115 commands the U.S. to reduce emissions that "endanger" foreign countries if those countries reciprocate under Paris. After his experience with the travel ban, Mr. Trump should understand that legal danger. 
The Big Con at the heart of Paris is that even its supporters concede that meeting all of its commitments won't prevent more than a 0.17 degree Celsius increase in global temperatures by 2100, far less than the two degrees that is supposedly needed to avert climate doom. 
It's also rich for Europeans to complain about the U.S. abdicating climate leadership after their regulators looked the other way as auto makers, notably Volkswagen, cheated on emissions tests. This allowed Europeans to claim they were meeting their green goals without harming the competitiveness of their auto makers. The EPA had to shame the EU into investigating the subterfuge. 
The U.S. legal culture will insist on carbon compliance even if Europe and China cheat. Even if Mr. Trump would succeed in rewriting U.S. emissions targets, his predecessor could ratchet them back up. That possibility might deter some companies from investing in long-term fossil-fuel production. 
The simplest decision is to make a clean break from Paris. But if Mr. Trump doesn't want to take the political heat for withdrawing on his own, here's a compromise: Atone for Mr. Obama's dereliction and submit Paris to the Senate for approval as a treaty. Then we can see whether anticarbon virtue-signaling beats real-world economic costs for Democrats from energy states like Heidi Heitkamp (North Dakota), Joe Manchin (West Virginia) and Joe Donnelly (Indiana). 
(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: Leaving Paris: Good Move or Terrible Error?" -- WSJ June 7, 2017) 
(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Emission standards;  
Air pollution;  
Emissions;  
Climate change;  
Coal;  
Steel production;  
Editorials  
Location  Europe; United States--US; California; China; Germany  
People  Bush, George W  
Company / organization  Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS: 924110;  
Name: Manhattan Institute  
NAICS: 541720;  
Name: United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change  
NAICS: 928120  
Title  Paris Climate Discord  
Author  Anonymous  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.16  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Jun 1, 2017  
column  REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  1904047694  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1904047694?accountid=14902  

Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-10-16  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 82 of 376 


Why Always Having Paris Is Good for the U.S. 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]01 June 2017: A.16. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Why+Always+Having+Paris+Is+Good+for+the+U.S.&title=Wall+Street 06-01&volume=&issue=&spage=A.16&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Regarding Cliff Forrest's "The 'Business Case' for Paris Is Bunk" (op-ed, May 30): I contributed to global warming by printing the Paris Agreement on climate change. 

Full Text 
Regarding Cliff Forrest's "The 'Business Case' for Paris Is Bunk" (op-ed, May 30): I contributed to global warming by printing the Paris Agreement on climate change. It's only 25 pages of text but stuffed with loopholes big enough to drive a gas-guzzler through. It was obviously written by diplomats, not scientists. It's stunningly vague. It has only two specific goals: to "hold the increase in the average temperature to below 2 degrees celsius above preindustrial levels" and "achieve a balance between anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by sinks of greenhouse gases in the second half of this century." Who picked these goals? Are they sufficient to save the planet and humanity? Are they technically possible? And why do this in the second half of the century? The way it reads, if we succeed by 2099, we win. Spoiler alert: We're all toast before then. 
The agreement has no teeth. No goals for individual countries, no due dates in this century, no penalties. Lots of fuzzy empty words like aim, equity, context, enhancing, encouraged, strive, robust, promote, incentivize, facilitate, enable, sharing, strengthening, assisting and mobilizing. I guess we all should hold hands and sing "Kumbaya." 
It's certain to have many countries pointing fingers at each other and squabbling about "fair share" and other baloney while the planet cooks. 
The signers could make it tougher, set goals for each signer and say something about the science. But given the enormous costs of combating climate change and our world­wide addictions to oil and coal, it's unlikely that many of them will make big sacrifices. I wish our species were wiser. 
Kerry Smith 
Woodbury, Minn. 
The "American case" should be a fully underwritten evaluation of the pros and cons of the Paris agreement for the U.S. If Arthur Cecil Pigou were alive today, he would likely argue that climate change is the perfect and ultimate negative externality. Who is benefiting from the activity and who will be hurt by it? If science has it right, the costs to Florida, New Jersey, Southern California and other coastal states over the next 50-75 years will likely be in the trillions of dollars. 
Like Mr. Forrest, I'm a stakeholder in the U.S. energy economy. While it may be true that near-term financial statements would support the notion of a bad business case for Paris, all of us need to be focused on the American case in the long run. 
David Oliner 
Montclair, N.J. 
(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Climate change; 
Paris Agreement 


Location 	Southern California 
Title 	Why Always Having Paris Is Good for the U.S. 
Author 	Anonymous 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.16 
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Jun 1, 2017  
Section  Letters to the Editor  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1904047679  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1904047679?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-24  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 83 of 376 


Angela Merkel's Lament 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]30 May 2017: A.18. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Angela+Merkel%27s+Lament&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=0099 05-30&volume=&issue=&spage=A.18&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
"Here we have the situation that six members, or even seven if you want to add the [European Union], stand against one.' Since when is a difference of opinion on climate policy a signal of U.S. retreat from Europe? 

Full Text 
Angela Merkel's declaration on the weekend that Germany and continental Europe will have to depend more on themselves is being portrayed as the Donald Trump-inspired end of American leadership in Europe. But if that's true, and we have heard this dirge before, the erosion of U.S. leadership hardly began with Mr. Trump. It started under Barack Obama, whose failure to lead was too often reinforced by his main partner in Europe, Mrs. Merkel. 
"All I can say is that we Europeans must really take our destiny into our own hands," the German leader told a crowd during a re-election campaign event at a beer tent in Bavaria. "The times in which we can fully count on others are somewhat over, as I have experienced in the past few days." 
That was widely perceived as the German Chancellor's reaction to last week's NATO and G-7 summits, when the new U.S. President challenged NATO members to spend more on defense and refused to sign on to the climate-change policies of the other six leaders. 
Mrs. Merkel seemed especially miffed about Mr. Trump's decision not to embrace the Paris climate accord that Mr. Obama signed in his final year as President. "The whole discussion about climate has been difficult, or rather very unsatisfactory," Mrs. Merkel told reporters. "Here we have the situation that six members, or even seven if you want to add the [European Union], stand against one.' 
But wait. Since when is a difference of opinion on climate policy a signal of U.S. retreat from Europe? And why is Mr. Trump's reluctance to sign on to Paris -- he says he'll decide whether to leave the accord this week -- a failure of leadership? Mrs. Merkel's comments suggest that she is most upset because Mr. Trump declined to follow her lead on climate. 
Mr. Trump should decline if he wants to fulfill his campaign promises to lift the U.S. economy. Mrs. Merkel's embrace of green-energy dogmas has done enormous harm to the German economy. She reacted to the Fukushima meltdown by phasing out nuclear power, and her government has force-fed hundreds of billions of dollars into solar and wind power that have raised energy costs. As Der Spiegel once put it, electricity is now a "luxury good" in Germany. 
It's not surprising that Mrs. Merkel and the Europeans should want to shackle the U.S. with similarly high energy costs, and Mr. Obama was happy to oblige. But Mr. Trump was elected on a promise to raise middle-class incomes, and domestic energy production is essential to that effort. Mrs. Merkel doesn't care if Mr. Obama committed the U.S. to Paris without any Congressional approval, but Mr. Trump has to take that into account. 
The U.S. natural-gas fracking revolution also has the benefit of reducing fossil-fuel emissions by reducing reliance on coal. To the extent that U.S. energy production can supplant Russian natural-gas supplies to Europe and keep the price of oil low, it also undermines Vladimir Putin's influence at home and abroad. 
As for fading U.S. leadership in Europe, we wish the German Chancellor had prodded Mr. Obama to do more after Russia snatched Crimea from Ukraine. We're still waiting for the Germans to support arming Ukraine to impose higher costs on Russia's military incursions. Then there's the failure of the U.S. and Europe to stop the Syrian civil war, which contributed to Brexit by sending millions of refugees into Europe without border controls. 
Mr. Trump is undiplomatic, and sometimes rude, as he showed when he shoved aside Montenegro's prime minister at the NATO summit. This behavior is embarrassing for most Americans, and Mr. Trump's lack of basic knowledge about the economics of trade is dangerous. 
But then Mr. Trump has abandoned his campaign bluster that NATO is obsolete, and he signed onto the G-7 communique language vowing to resist protectionism. The President's challenge to Europe to spend more on its own defense may be precisely the leadership the alliance needs. That's especially true for Germany, which spends a mere 1.2% of GDP on the military and whose public takes an increasingly pacifist view of global conflict, in contrast to the British and French. 
Mrs. Merkel's German opponents claim she is too accommodating to Mr. Trump, and her weekend remarks are in part a bow to that domestic politics. She is generally pro-American and an admirable leader. Mr. Trump shouldn't overreact to her weekend comments any more than Europe should overreact to some of his. The Atlantic alliance might even benefit from more such candid talk on both sides. 
(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: So Europe Is Now on Its Own? It's About Time" -- WSJ July 5, 2017) 
(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Political campaigns; 
Environmental policy; 

Leadership; Editorials 
Location  United States--US; Bavaria; Europe; Germany  
People  Merkel, Angela; Trump, Donald J  
Company / organization  Name: Der Spiegel  
NAICS: 511120;  
Name: North Atlantic Treaty Organization--NATO  
NAICS: 928120;  
Name: European Union  
NAICS: 926110, 928120  
Title  Angela Merkel's Lament  
Author  Anonymous  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.18  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  May 30, 2017  
column  REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  1903314320  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1903314320?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-10-16  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 84 of 376 


We'll Always Have Paris if U.S. Doesn't Act 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]16 May 2017: A.16. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=We%27ll+Always+Have+Paris+if+U.S.+Doesn%27t+Act&title=Wall+Str 05-16&volume=&issue=&spage=A.16&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Many corporations and industry trade associations do attend, but nearly all are from the renewable-energy sector and stand to profit from the Paris treaty, the purpose of which is to eliminate the use of fossil fuels completely, first in the developed countries. 

Full Text 
Regarding Rep. Kevin Cramer's "Remake the Paris Deal to Promote U.S. Energy" (op-ed, May 8): The agreement contains no provision for renegotiation. Indeed, Paris's most insidious feature is that its terms do away with the need to take one's vaunted "seat at the table" ever again. Unless President Trump keeps his promise to cancel U.S. participation in what is by its terms, custom and practice a treaty, we will always have Paris. It demands quinquennial, ever more stringent promises, in perpetuity. 
The window for restoring our constitutional treaty process is closing. President Trump should reaffirm to our negotiating partners that we have a constitutional process, we will follow it and submit the Paris Agreement to the Senate for ratification, as the Constitution requires. This will tell the world there is no margin in collaborating with a future executive to circumvent it. 
Mr. Cramer states that by staying in Paris the U.S. will be able to defend American interests and the use of fossil fuels. He clearly has never attended one of the annual U.N. global-warming conferences, which are massive, fortnight-long diatribes against fossil fuels, especially coal. Many corporations and industry trade associations do attend, but nearly all are from the renewable-energy sector and stand to profit from the Paris treaty, the purpose of which is to eliminate the use of fossil fuels completely, first in the developed countries. 
We agree with Mr. Cramer that: "Neither America nor the world can afford a European energy future, with skyrocketing prices." That's why President Trump must keep his campaign promise. 
Chris Horner and Myron Ebell 
Competitive Enterprise Institute 
Washington 
Knowing he couldn't get the 2/3 votes necessary for ratification of a treaty, President Obama never sent the Paris Agreement to the Senate, and nothing about that scenario has changed. By sending it to the Senate for eventual failure, it frees us of any commitments to the agreement while at the same time shutting down potential lawsuits by environmental groups. Then the administration can craft whatever climate policy it sees fit. A win-win in my book. 
Dan Strowbridge 
Battle Creek, Mich. 
The U.S. should reduce fossil-carbon use in a business-friendly way with a carbon fee and dividend. This plan, which places a fee on extraction of fossil carbon and passes the money back to the people as a dividend, allows business to find the optimal approaches to reduced pollution. Any country that uses different plans will be at a disadvantage. 
James A. Martin, Sc.D. 
Huntington Beach, Calif. 
(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Fossil fuels; 
Carbon; 
Presidents; 
Environmental policy; 
Energy industry; 

Paris Agreement 


Location  United States--US  
People  Obama, Barack  
Title  We'll Always Have Paris if U.S. Doesn't Act  
Author  Anonymous  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.16  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  May 16, 2017  
Section  Letters to the Editor  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1898859267  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1898859267?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-25  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 85 of 376 


Remake the Paris Deal to Promote America's Energy Interests 
Cramer, Kevin.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]08 May 2017: A.19. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Remake+the+Paris+Deal+to+Promote+America%27s+Energy+Inter 05-08&volume=&issue=&spage=A.19&au=Cramer%2C+Kevin&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
[...]negotiate through the Paris Agreement to defend American interests, particularly by advancing technology for clean coal and pushing for increased investment and a better regulatory environment -- all of which will create more foreign markets for American clean coal technology. 

Full Text 
President Trump will soon decide whether to withdraw the U.S. from the Paris Agreement on climate change. His top advisers are huddling Tuesday, likely for a final time, to consider the decision, which has been promised by the end of the month. I endorsed Mr. Trump last April because I believed in his America First agenda, and I advised him on energy policies during the campaign. 
I was wary of Paris and used to favor pulling out, but I've changed my mind for two reasons. First, in future climate talks the U.S. will benefit from having Mr. Trump, an experienced negotiator, at the table. Second, the Trump administration can legally scrap President Obama's emission-reduction pledge without leaving the Paris agreement. 
It is abundantly clear that the agreement, which is and will remain legally nonbinding, does not prohibit lowering the American pledge. In a May 1 memo, Sierra Club lawyer Steve Herz wrote that "it would be extremely difficult to prevail" in any lawsuit arguing that the U.S. was bound by its pledge, or by the agreement itself. 
Thus any renegotiation would be the easiest deal Mr. Trump has ever made: He would simply submit a new pledge. Then if somehow the U.S. was blocked from changing its commitment, Washington could simply leave the Paris agreement that same day. 
Regardless, EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt would be able to rescind the woefully constructed Clean Power Plan and other harmful Obama-era regulations, since they all preceded the climate deal reached in Paris in December 2015. Those regulations and the Paris agreement are legally unrelated. 
There has been spirited debate among House Republicans on the best move to make. Several of my colleagues on the House Energy and Commerce Committee -- including conservatives from energy-rich states such as Oklahoma, Missouri and Pennsylvania -- agree that the smart strategy is to try to work out a more beneficial deal for the U.S. under the Paris agreement rather than walk away and let China and others take over the discussions. Eight of my fellow Republicans joined me in signing a letter to President Trump laying out specific conditions that would turn Paris into a good deal: 
First, revise the U.S. pledge so it doesn't harm the economy and comes to reflect America First energy policies. 
Second, cease Washington's transfers to the Green Climate Fund, and ensure the existing money isn't spent on wasteful projects. 
Third, negotiate through the Paris Agreement to defend American interests, particularly by advancing technology for clean coal and pushing for increased investment and a better regulatory environment -- all of which will create more foreign markets for American clean coal technology. 
Mr. Obama's Paris pledge was a bad deal, as Mr. Trump explained forcefully during the campaign. But the situation has changed. The new White House can replace those harmful policies with an America First energy vision, and a Paris pledge and negotiations that reflect it. 
What could Paris become with President Trump and his negotiators at the table? Energy Secretary Rick Perry has already aggressively touted the virtues of nuclear and clean coal at a recent Group of Seven energy meeting. That view faces stiff opposition from some of America's allies in Europe, who will work hard to promote a radical and unrealistic all-renewables vision for global energy policy. The U.S. needs to take them on in every available forum, Paris included. 
Since Paris went into force, many nations in Eastern Europe and the Mediterranean have built clean coal plans into their Paris pledges. The White House can build on these pragmatic approaches, using Paris to help the U.S. energy industry and American workers. If Washington were to up and leave, Beijing would fill the leadership vacuum. It isn't wise to cede that ground. 
Neither America nor the world can afford a European energy future, with skyrocketing prices, or a Chinese energy future, with bureaucratic control and unfair dumping of state-subsidized resources. 
If Mr. Trump can fix Paris, it will be an example of the emerging Trump Doctrine. He would manage to get international credit for staying in the talks and ensuring they aren't led by China, while at the same time protecting America's economy. 
Voters elected Donald Trump because they trusted him to drive hard bargains and help America start winning again. I trust that President Trump can negotiate the Paris Agreement into a good deal and deliver yet another win -- for North Dakotans and American workers everywhere. 
Mr. Cramer, a Republican, represents North Dakota in the U.S. House. 
(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: We'll Always Have Paris if U.S. Doesn't Act" -- WSJ May 16, 2017) 
Credit: By Kevin Cramer 
(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Electric power plants;  
Coal;  
Climate change;  
Paris Agreement;  
Energy industry  
Location  United States--US  
Title  Remake the Paris Deal to Promote America's Energy Interests  
Author  Cramer, Kevin  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.19  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  May 8, 2017  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1895819055  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1895819055?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2019-03-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 86 of 376 


Ethical Funds Are Hard To Define 
Loder, Asjylyn.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]05 May 2017: B.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Ethical+Funds+Are+Hard+To+Define&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=0 05-05&volume=&issue=&spage=B.1&au=Loder%2C+Asjylyn&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Some funds go a step further, using financial criteria like revenue or dividends combined with ESG scores. Since the start of 2016, the ETF industry has launched 26 new ESG funds, according to FactSet and XTF. 

Full Text 
State Street Corp. launched its SPDR S&P 500 Fossil Fuel Free exchange-traded fund with much fanfare in December 2015, its debut timed to coincide with the Paris climate talks and its credibility burnished by support from the Natural Resources Defense Council, one of the most prominent environmental lobbying groups in the U.S. 
Despite the ETF's name, it owned stakes in, for example, Transocean Ltd., the offshore-drilling company implicated in the Deepwater Horizon oil spill; Southern Co., a utility that relies on coal and natural gas for 80% of its generating capacity; and Valero Energy Corp., a major gasoline refiner. 
As demand for do-gooder investing increases, particularly among women and millennials, fund managers are retooling their lineups to include funds that appeal to a wider audience. These loosely defined strategies offer a feel-good tilt while still preserving broad market exposure, which muddies the difference between responsible funds and their plain-vanilla peers. 
The lack of industrywide definitions makes reliable statistics hard to come by. 
The Global Sustainable Investment Alliance estimates that assets pegged to environmental, social and governance strategies, or ESG, ballooned to a record $22.9 trillion at the start of 2016, making up 26% of professionally managed money world-wide. 
Yet many asset managers disclose few details about how they use ESG criteria, according to a report from the alliance's U.S. organization. Some analysts include solar- and wind-energy funds. Others don't. Some funds adhere to "biblical" values that critics call homophobic. Some funds, like the State Street ETF, own stock in companies that are blacklisted by competitors. 
"It's a very slippery space," said Elisabeth Kashner, head of ETFs for FactSet, a data and analytics firm. "There's no consensus on what's ultimately good or bad, nor is there consensus on how to measure it." 
Last August, State Street changed the name to clarify the fund's strategy of avoiding firms with coal, gas and oil reserves such as Exxon Mobil Corp. It is now called the SPDR S&P 500 Fossil Fuel Reserves Free ETF. 
"There is no ironclad, crystal-clear, broadly consensual, industry definition of how to invest, or not invest, in fossil fuels," said Chris McKnett, head of ESG investments at State Street, who said the change was made for the sake of "precision and clarity." 
ESG investing traces its modern roots to the antiapartheid divestiture campaign of the 1980s, which prodded companies to withdraw from South Africa to protest the country's institutionalized racial segregation. After apartheid was dismantled, ethical investing focused on boycotting heavy polluters and human-rights violators. As concerns about climate change increased, investors began looking for ways to reduce the carbon footprint of their portfolios without sacrificing diversification and performance. 
ESG became an increasingly popular solution. Instead of using market value to determine how much to allocate each company, like most traditional indexes, the strategies weight their investments based on how a company performs on ESG criteria. 
Some funds go a step further, using financial criteria like revenue or dividends combined with ESG scores. 
Since the start of 2016, the ETF industry has launched 26 new ESG funds, according to FactSet and XTF. Firms, including Goldman Sachs Group Inc., State Street and OppenheimerFunds, have also published research touting the performance-enhancing benefits of ESG screening. Some fund managers believe that ESG screening can weed out companies with simmering scandals, said Sharon French, head of beta solutions for OppenheimerFunds. 
She cited MSCI's July 2013 ESG downgrade of Volkswagen AG due to corporate-governance problems, more than two years before the Environmental Protection Agency announced its investigation into emissions cheating. 
Such strategies preserve diversification, but can make for strange bedfellows. For example, the Columbia Sustainable Global Equity Income ETF includes Valero Energy and Marathon Petroleum Corp. among its top 20 investments; and, at one point, the single largest holding of Oppenheimer's Global ESG Revenue ETF was Wal-Mart Stores Inc., a company excluded from other ESG strategies because of its history of labor problems, though that may change as the company improves its ESG performance. The fund liquidated its Wal-Mart stake in February after MSCI noted "significant concerns" related to labor unions and an ongoing bribery case against its Mexican subsidiary, Oppenheimer's Ms. French said. 
Credit: By Asjylyn Loder 
(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Fossil fuels;  
Climate change;  
Mutual funds;  
Exchange traded funds;  
Social investing  
Title  Ethical Funds Are Hard To Define  
Author  Loder, Asjylyn  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.1  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  May 5, 2017  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1895139028  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1895139028?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-24  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 87 of 376 


World News: Nations Pledge Climate Efforts 
Spegele, Brian; Te-Ping, Chen.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]30 Mar 2017: A.8. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=World+News%3A+Nations+Pledge+Climate+Efforts&title=Wall+Street+ 03-30&volume=&issue=&spage=A.8&au=Spegele%2C+Brian%3BTe-Ping%2C+Chen&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
European officials issued rebukes and officials around Asia said they would continue their drive toward cleaner fuels after President Donald Trump laid the groundwork to reverse his predecessor's climate-change policies. Trump, citing the need to revive the U.S. coal industry and ease the regulatory burden, began on Tuesday to repeal the Obama administration's Clean Power Plan of stricter carbon-dioxide limits on utilities. 

Full Text 
European officials issued rebukes and officials around Asia said they would continue their drive toward cleaner fuels after President Donald Trump laid the groundwork to reverse his predecessor's climate-change policies. 
Mr. Trump, citing the need to revive the U.S. coal industry and ease the regulatory burden, began on Tuesday to repeal the Obama administration's Clean Power Plan of stricter carbon-dioxide limits on utilities. 
The change leaves an opening for China and other countries to seize leadership in the global effort to curb the rise in temperatures, as set out in the 2015 Paris Agreement, which went into force in November. 
The U.S. move raised questions about what steps, if any, the Trump administration would take to comply with the Paris commitments. 
"I think it's a disaster, not only for the U.S., but a global disaster," Jean-Claude Juncker, the head of the European Union's executive branch, which helped broker the Paris agreement, said on Wednesday of Mr. Trump's move. He said the EU "has to advocate the need to stick to the agreement reached in Paris. I insist on talking to our American partners." 
China, the biggest emitter of climate-changing gases, won't change its climate-change policies, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Lu Kang said on Wednesday. "We still advocate that all sides should move with the times, grasp opportunities, fulfill their promises and earnestly take positive action to jointly promote implementation of (the Paris) agreement." 
Credit: By Brian Spegele and Te-Ping Chen 
(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Coal industry; 

Environmental policy; 
Paris Agreement; 

Climate change 


Location 	Asia; China; United States--US 
People 	Trump, Donald J 
Title 	World News: Nations Pledge Climate Efforts 
Author 	Spegele, Brian; Te-Ping, Chen 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.8 
Publication year 	2017 
Publication date 	Mar 30, 2017 
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1881941642  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1881941642?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-24  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 88 of 376 


Trump Loosens Climate Rules --- President says rollback of Obama's agenda will save coal jobs, but now utilities focus on gas 
Radnofsky, Louise; Sweet, Cassandra.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]29 Mar 2017: A.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Trump+Loosens+Climate+Rules+--­+President+says+rollback+of+Obama%27s+agenda+will+save+coal+jobs%2C+but+now+utilities+focus+on+gas&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2017-03­29&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Radnofsky%2C+Louise%3BSweet%2C+Cassandra&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Donald Trump Tuesday took steps to begin unraveling the centerpiece of the Obama environmental agenda, signing an order to reverse rules aimed at pushing U.S. utilities to shift from coal plants to cleaner-burning fuels. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- President Donald Trump Tuesday took steps to begin unraveling the centerpiece of the Obama environmental agenda, signing an order to reverse rules aimed 
at pushing U.S. utilities to shift from coal plants to cleaner-burning fuels. 
"My administration is putting an end to the war on coal," Mr. Trump said ahead of the official signing at the Environmental Protection Agency, repeating a campaign slogan he 
used to champion policies he said would bring back mining jobs. 

He said he was paring back regulations that impeded job creation, while still ensuring clean air and water. 

But while the moves are being billed as job savers, companies and energy experts said the order is unlikely to reverse the U.S. utility industry's shift to natural gas, solar and 
wind as leading sources of electricity. 
The order begins a formal review of President Barack Obama's Clean Power Plan, which would have required utilities to reduce power plant carbon-dioxide emissions to 32% 

below 2005 levels by 2030. It also initiates a review of a regulation that would impose tougher emissions requirements on new plants. 

It further pulls back 2016 guidance from the Council on Environmental Quality on climate change and official estimates of the social cost of carbon, methane and nitrous oxide 
and rescinds a temporary ban on new coal leases on federal lands, which Mr. Obama's Interior Department issued early last year. 
The moves are all but certain to trigger legal and political pushback from environmentalists, and Democrats announced swift opposition on Tuesday. The actual repeal could take 

years as the litigation and rule-making process run their course. The White House on Monday night acknowledged it would likely take "some time." 

"Ultimately, litigation will keep these agencies on course, but this order is a big waste of time and effort, done to appease a dirty industry and right-wing climate-denial 
fanatics," said Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse, a Rhode Island Democrat. 
The White House action is part of a broad push across the government to rein in what Republicans and businesses say is a burdensome and costly regulatory environment 

created under the Democratic administration. It also gave the president an opportunity to move beyond the difficult collapse of health-care legislation in the House last week 

and hand a win to allies who have fervently opposed the power plant rules. 
The move also raises questions about what steps, if any, the Trump administration might take to comply with a global pact to address climate change that roughly 200 nations 
agreed to in Paris in 2015. 

The order Tuesday drew a rebuke from the European Union. 
A senior White House official said Monday that the Trump administration hasn't reached a decision on how to proceed with the Paris agreement. 
While companies and energy experts said Tuesday's move may extend the life of some aging coal-fired power plants, there are other factors at work. 
Many energy companies face state requirements to increase renewable power generation and are under pressure from investors such as pension funds and university 

endowments to clean up their operations. 

Cheap U.S. natural gas unlocked by hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling has prompted many companies to scrap older coal plants in favor of gas-fired plants, which 
require fewer workers to operate. 
Companies are also taking advantage of tax credits for renewable power to build out solar and wind farms, which are becoming more cost-competitive with fossil-fuel generation 

thanks to economies of scale and advances in technology. 

Nearly 700 institutions valued at more than $5 trillion have pledged to divest themselves from fossil-fuel companies, according to a December report by consulting firm Arabella 
Advisors. 
And many utilities are already orienting themselves toward cleaner fuels. 
Duke Energy Corp. said it planned to invest $11 billion in natural-gas and renewable power generation over the next 10 years, as the company aims to cut its greenhouse-gas 

emissions by 35% from 2005 levels, by 2026. 

That represents a long-term company strategy and isn't likely to change, Duke Chief Executive Lynn Good said in a February interview. 
Southern Co. plans to invest at least $1 billion a year over the next five years in new wind farms. It now uses natural gas to generate 47% of its power. Coal provides 31%, nuclear 15%, and hydropower, wind, solar and other renewable sources 7%. 
"Going forward, we anticipate an increase in renewable generation capacity and declining utilization of coal," said Terrell McCollum, a spokesman for the Atlanta-based utility. 
Still, the symbolism surrounding the action was important for Mr. Trump and loyal constituencies in the mining industry, where the power plant rules were viewed as a government betrayal for regions whose mines had long provided steady employment. 
Shares of some coal companies jumped on news of the order. Peabody Energy Corp., which is exiting bankruptcy, rose 15.8% to $2.20. Arch Coal Inc. rose 1.85% to $69. 
Credit: By Louise Radnofsky and Cassandra Sweet 
(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Natural gas; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Environmental policy; 
Climate change 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Trump, Donald J 
Title 	Trump Loosens Climate Rules --- President says rollback of Obama's agenda will save coal jobs, 
but now utilities focus on gas 

Author 	Radnofsky, Louise; Sweet, Cassandra 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.1 
Publication year 	2017 
Publication date 	Mar 29, 2017 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 	00999660 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	News 
ProQuest document ID 	1881668584 
Document URL 	https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1881668584?accountid=14902 
Copyright 	(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further 
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Last updated 	2017-11-24 
Database US Newsstream 
document 89 of 376 


Trump's Energy Progress 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]29 Mar 2017: A.18. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Trump%27s+Energy+Progress&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=009 03-29&volume=&issue=&spage=A.18&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
[...]expected are double-digit increases in the price of electricity -- and a less reliable power grid. 

Full Text 
One area where President Trump is notching early victories is unleashing American energy, which for years has been held hostage to progressive climate obsessions. On Tuesday Mr. Trump signed an executive order to rescind many of the Obama Administration's energy directives, and he deserves credit for ending punitive policies that harmed the economy for no improvement in global CO2 emissions or temperatures. 
The order directs the Environmental Protection Agency to review the Clean Power Plan, which the Supreme Court stayed last year in an extraordinary rebuke. The plan essentially forces states to retire coal plants early, and the tab could top $1 trillion in lost output and 125,000 jobs, according to the American Action Forum. Also expected are double-digit increases in the price of electricity -- and a less reliable power grid. All for nothing: A year of U.S. reductions in 2025 would be offset by Chinese emissions in three weeks, says Rice University's Charles McConnell. 
The rule also fulfills a campaign promise to end Barack Obama's war on coal. It's true that market forces are reducing coal's share of U.S. electric power -- to some 30% from about 50% a decade ago -- thanks mainly to fracking for natural gas. Yet Mr. Obama still deployed brute government force to bankrupt the coal industry. Mr. Trump is right to end that punishment and let the market, not federal dictates, sort out the right energy mix for the future. 
The story is similar on a methane rule that the executive order will begin to roll back. Total U.S. methane emissions have dropped 15% since 1990, as Bernard Weinstein of Southern Methodist University told the House last fall, even though domestic oil-and-gas production has doubled over the past decade. One reason is that energy companies have a financial incentive to capture the stuff and sell it. Still, EPA promulgated expensive new emissions targets, equipment rules and more. 
The order also dumps the "social cost of carbon," which is a tool the Obama Administration employed to junk mandatory cost-benefit analyses for regulations. For example: An EPA power plant rule predicted net benefits from $26 billion to $46 billion, but as much as 65% of that derived from guesswork about the positives of reducing carbon, as Bracewell & Giuliani's Scott Segal explained to Congress at a 2015 hearing. The Obama Administration rolled out these new calculations with no public comment, and the models surely wouldn't survive a rigorous peer review. 
Our contributor Paul Tice makes an intriguing case nearby that the Trump Administration should go further to bring regulatory certainty for energy investment (See related editorial: "Trump's Next Step on Climate Change" -- WSJ March 29, 2017). 
He argues that the EPA should revisit its 2009 "endangerment finding," which blacklisted carbon dioxide as a pollutant. 
The Trump Administration could update this finding, as recent literature has revealed a pause in rising global temperatures that can't be explained by carbon reductions. Meantime, progressives will continue to flog the endangerment finding in court as long as it exists, and then use it as a pretext for more regulation when a Democrat returns to the White House. 
Another question is whether President Trump will withdraw from the Paris climate deal, which would -- in theory -- force annual U.S. emissions reductions of 26% over 2005 levels by 2025. That decision is "still under discussion," according to a White House official who briefed reporters Monday night. 
Yet the Clean Power Plan would only fulfill a fraction of the U.S. Paris commitments at an exorbitant cost. Not even Mr. Obama's entire regulatory agenda would have reached the targets. Already other countries with no intention of reducing their emissions are demanding U.S. compliance and threatening tariffs, so a prompt exit may minimize the damage. 
Environmental groups are accusing Mr. Trump of "reversing climate progress," even as they call the order "symbolic" because the regulatory damage to the coal industry -- from rules on mercury, ozone, dust -- is mostly irreversible. In any event, Scott Pruitt's EPA can expect lawsuits that may take years to untangle. 
The Trump order is a promise in the bank for the voters who elected the President because he promised to focus on jobs and revving up the economy. It's also a welcome return to regulatory modesty: One of the more outrageous aspects of the Obama anti-carbon agenda is that agencies rammed through what Congress refused to pass in legislation. 
As for climate change, President Trump's order will have the same practical effect on rising temperatures as the Clean Power Plan: none. 
(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Electric utilities; 

Carbon; 
Industrial plant emissions; 


Electricity distribution; Emissions; Climate change; Coal-fired power plants; Energy industry; Executive orders; Editorials  
Location  United States--US  
People  Obama, Barack  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Congress 921120;  
Name: NAICS:  Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 924110;  
Name: NAICS:  Southern Methodist University 611310;  
Name: NAICS:  Rice University 611310  
Title  Trump's Energy Progress  
Author  Anonymous  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.18  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Mar 29, 2017  
column  REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  1881641204  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1881641204?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-10-16  

Database US Newsstream 
document 90 of 376 


Trump's Next Step on Climate Change 
Tice, Paul H.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]29 Mar 2017: A.19. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Trump%27s+Next+Step+on+Climate+Change&title=Wall+Street+Jo 03-29&volume=&issue=&spage=A.19&au=Tice%2C+Paul+H&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The executive orders on climate change President Trump signed this week represent a step in the right direction for U.S. energy policy and, importantly, deliver on Mr. Trump's campaign promise to roll back burdensome regulations affecting American companies. But it will take more than the stroke of a pen to make lasting progress and reverse the momentum of the climate-change movement. On Tuesday, in a series of orders, Trump instructed the Environmental Protection Agency to rework its Clean Power Plan, which would restrict carbon emissions from existing power plants, mainly coal-fired ones. Last year the U.S. Supreme Court stayed enforcement of the CPP pending judicial review. 

Full Text 
The executive orders on climate change President Trump signed this week represent a step in the right direction for U.S. energy policy and, importantly, deliver on Mr. Trump's campaign promise to roll back burdensome regulations affecting American companies. But it will take more than the stroke of a pen to make lasting progress and reverse the momentum of the climate-change movement. 
On Tuesday, in a series of orders, Mr. Trump instructed the Environmental Protection Agency to rework its Clean Power Plan, which would restrict carbon emissions from existing power plants, mainly coal-fired ones. Last year the U.S. Supreme Court stayed enforcement of the CPP pending judicial review. 
Mr. Trump also directed the Interior Department to lift its current moratorium on federal coal leasing and loosen restrictions on oil and gas development (including methane flaring) on federal lands. And he instructed all government agencies to stop factoring climate change into the environmental-review process for federal projects. The federal government will recalculate the "social cost of carbon." 
These actions are a good start, but all they do is reverse many of the executive orders President Obama signed late in his second term. While easy to implement and theatrical to stage, such measures are largely superficial and may prove as temporary as the decrees they rescind. 
Because they don't attack the climate-change regulatory problem at its root, Mr. Trump's orders will not provide enough clarity to U.S. energy companies -- particularly electric utilities and coal-mining companies -- for their long-term business forecasting or short-term capital investment and head-count planning. 
To accomplish that, the Trump administration, led by EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt, needs to target the EPA's 2009 "endangerment finding," which labeled carbon dioxide as a pollutant. That foundational ruling provided the legal underpinnings for all of the EPA's follow-on carbon regulations, including the CPP. 
It also provided the rationale for the previous administration's anti-fossil-fuel agenda and its various climate-change initiatives and programs, which spanned more than a dozen federal agencies and cost the American taxpayer roughly $20 billion to $25 billion a year during Mr. Obama's presidency. 
The endangerment finding was the product of a rush to judgment. Much of the scientific data upon which it was predicated -- chiefly, the 2007 Fourth Assessment Report of the U.N.'s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change -- was already dated by the time of its publication and arguably not properly peer-reviewed as federal law requires. 
With the benefit of hindsight -- including more than a decade of actual-versus-modeled data, plus the insights into the insular climate-science community gleaned from the University of East Anglia Climategate email disclosures -- there would seem to be strong grounds now to reconsider the EPA's 2009 decision and issue a new finding. 
In 2013, the IPCC issued a more circumspect Fifth Assessment Report, which noted a hiatus in global warming since 1998 and a breakdown in correlation between the world's average surface temperatures and atmospheric carbon dioxide levels, causing the U.N. body to revise down its 2007 projections for the rate of planetary warming over the first half of the 21st century. 
Although this initially reported "pause" was subsequently eliminated through the downward manipulation of historical temperature data, this latest IPCC assessment calls into question both the predictive power and input data quality of most global climate models, and further highlights the scientific uncertainty surrounding the basic premise of anthropogenic climate change. 
An updated EPA endangerment finding based on an objective review of the latest available scientific data is warranted, along with a more sober discussion of the threat posed by carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases to the "public health and welfare of current and future generations," in the words of the original endangerment finding. 
As long as the 2009 finding remains on the books, it will provide legal ammunition for environmentalists, academics and state government officials seeking to sue the administration for any actions related to climate change, including this week's executive orders. 
Issuing a new endangerment finding would be a bold move requiring thorough work, but the Trump EPA would be well within its legal rights to undertake such an updated review process. In Massachusetts v. EPA (2007), the Supreme Court ruled that the Clean Air Act gives the EPA the authority, but not the obligation, to regulate carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases. The EPA needs to "ground its reasons for action or inaction" with "reasoned judgment" and scientific analysis. 
Addressing the 2009 endangerment finding head-on would show that Mr. Trump is serious about challenging climate-change orthodoxy. Thus far he has sent a mixed message, as demonstrated by this week's ambivalence on CPP (reworking rather than repealing) and his administration's silence on U.S. participation in the U.N.'s 2015 Paris Agreement. 
Simply standing down on regulatory enforcement, cutting government funding for climate-change research and stopping data collection for the next four years will not suffice. Ignoring the EPA's 2009 endangerment finding would mean that it is only a matter of time before another liberal-minded occupant of the White House reasserts this regulatory power, bringing the country and the domestic energy sector back where Mr. Obama left them. 
Mr. Tice is an executive-in-residence at New York University's Stern School of Business and a former Wall Street energy research analyst. Credit: By Paul H. Tice 
(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Climate change;  
Environmental policy;  
Editorials  
Location  United States--US  
People  Trump, Donald J  
Company / organization  Name: Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change  
NAICS: 928120, 541712  
Title  Trump's Next Step on Climate Change  
Author  Tice, Paul H  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.19  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Mar 29, 2017  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  1881639610  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1881639610?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-10-16  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 91 of 376 


U.S. News: Trump Moves To Roll Back Obama Policy On Climate 
Radnofsky, Louise; Harder, Amy.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]28 Mar 2017: A.3. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+Trump+Moves+To+Roll+Back+Obama+Policy+On+Clim 03-28&volume=&issue=&spage=A.3&au=Radnofsky%2C+Louise%3BHarder%2C+Amy&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Officials will also pull back August 2016 guidance from the Council on Environmental Quality on climate change and official estimates of the social cost of carbon, methane and nitrous oxide and rescind a temporary ban on new coal leases on federal lands that Mr. Obama's Interior Department issued in early 2016. 

Full Text 
President Donald Trump will sign an executive order Tuesday taking steps to unravel the most contentious climate-change policies of his predecessor, the White House said. 
The Trump administration will formally review President Barack Obama's Clean Power Plan, which requires utilities to reduce power-plant carbon-dioxide emissions 32% below 2005 levels by 2030, a senior White House official said Monday night. 
Officials will also pull back August 2016 guidance from the Council on Environmental Quality on climate change and official estimates of the social cost of carbon, methane and nitrous oxide and rescind a temporary ban on new coal leases on federal lands that Mr. Obama's Interior Department issued in early 2016. 
Certain other presidential memorandums issued by Mr. Obama on environmental matters would also be canceled, the official said. 
The moves are all but certain to trigger legal and political pushback from supporters of the Obama administration's policies on the climate, who include Democrats and environmentalists. 
The official said it was likely that the review of the Clean Power Plan could take "some time" to run its course because of the federal rule-making process, and the prospect of litigation. 
Credit: By Louise Radnofsky and Amy Harder 
(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Executive orders; 

Climate change; 
Environmental policy 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Trump, Donald J 
Company / organization 	Name: Council on Environmental Quality 

NAICS: 926130 


Title 	U.S. News: Trump Moves To Roll Back Obama Policy On Climate 
Author 	Radnofsky, Louise; Harder, Amy 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.3 
Publication year 	2017 
Publication date 	Mar 28, 2017 
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1881385458  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1881385458?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-24  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 92 of 376 


Main Street: Donald Trump's Abolitionist Cabinet 
McGurn, William.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]14 Feb 2017: A.15. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Main+Street%3A+Donald+Trump%27s+Abolitionist+Cabinet&title=W 02-14&volume=&issue=&spage=A.15&au=McGurn%2C+William&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
In the same vein New York's Democratic attorney general, Eric Schneiderman, attacked Scott Pruitt, Mr. Trump's nominee to lead the Environmental Protection Agency, as "a dangerous and unqualified choice." In George Washington's day, the president got by with four cabinet members: secretary of state, secretary of the Treasury, secretary of war and attorney general. 

Full Text 
Among Democrats, the only question about Donald Trump's cabinet picks appears to be whether these people are merely unqualified for their jobs -- or uniquely unqualified. 
"In my mind she is the least qualified nominee in a historically unqualified cabinet." So spoke Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer about Betsy DeVos, who was nonetheless confirmed last Tuesday as education secretary. Somewhat more modestly Sen. Patty Murray (D., Wash.) contented herself with "uniquely unqualified" to describe Andrew Puzder, the labor secretary nominee whose confirmation hearings the Senate is scheduled to take up later this week. 
Not surprisingly, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi went much further on Ben Carson, declaring the neurosurgeon-turned-secretary of housing and urban development "disconcerting and disturbingly unqualified." In the same vein New York's Democratic attorney general, Eric Schneiderman, attacked Scott Pruitt, Mr. Trump's nominee to lead the Environmental Protection Agency, as "a dangerous and unqualified choice." Rick Perry got off relatively lightly when Sen. Martin Heinrich (D., N.M.) limited himself to "utterly unqualified" to describe Mr. Trump's pick for energy secretary. 
So what is it about these Trump nominees that makes them so distinctive and unqualified? National Public Radio comes closer to the truth than Mr. Schumer: It's because many of these cabinet secretaries are thought to "oppose the work of the very agencies they've been tapped to lead." 
For some of us, that's the most encouraging thing about them. True, only Mr. Perry has publicly called for the abolition of the cabinet agency he's now been asked to lead, and that was years ago. It's also true that in his confirmation hearing last month Mr. Perry pulled a Henry IV (the French Protestant king who converted to Catholicism to solidify his hold on the throne). If Henry thought Paris well worth a Mass, the former Texas governor has obviously concluded that a cabinet post is worth a public recantation of his previous call to eliminate it. 
Here's hoping some of the old Mr. Perry remains in his unconverted heart. No one denies that the Energy Department has important responsibilities -- primarily over our nuclear weapons. Even so, the question almost never asked is this: Does America need an entire cabinet agency for the job, and are we getting the proper bang for our taxpayer buck? 
It's a timely question, in a day when most federal cabinet agencies spend and regulate in ways fundamentally at odds with free people acting through their elected representatives. Then again, many of these agencies were designed this way, especially the more recent additions. 
It helps to remember that the Environmental Protection Agency began life as Richard Nixon's attempt to buy favor with the left. In a similar way, the Education Department was Jimmy Carter's sop to the National Education Association (even the New York Times editorialized against its establishment as "unwise"). Labor began as part of the U.S. Department of Commerce and Labor in 1903 but 10 years later morphed into a separate department. Which illustrates another lamentable fact of cabinet agencies: Far from dying off, they often subdivide into more agencies that each become bigger than the parent. 
Competence is not a requirement. One small example from the Education Department: a just-released federal analysis of a signature Obama initiative to improve failing public schools reports almost zero gain from the $7 billion spent. Yet we're to believe that Mrs. DeVos is the unqualified one here? 
Ditto the EPA. For Democrats today's EPA is less a government bureau than a secular church enforcing the dogmas of climate change. Over the Obama years, this took the form of trying to kill off the coal industry, as well as to assert federal control at the expense of the states. Enter Mr. Pruitt, who as attorney general for Oklahoma tussled in court with the EPA. The fierce opposition to Mr. Pruitt speaks to the progressive fear that he might help restore not only science to its rightful place but federalism. 
In George Washington's day, the president got by with four cabinet members: secretary of state, secretary of the Treasury, secretary of war and attorney general. Their posts reflect the core functions of the federal government. Today there are 15 separate departments in the cabinet, along with agencies like the EPA, which chug along merrily in Republican as well as Democratic administrations because, once established, they almost never have to justify their existence. 
Even with the best of reforms the United States will never again see a cabinet as pared down as Washington's. But for believers in limited government, the most refreshing aspect of the Trump cabinet is that he's included men and women whose primary qualification is a willingness to question whether we really need the federal behemoths they have been asked to lead. 
Write to McGurn@wsj.com. 
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service 
Credit: By William McGurn 
(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Cabinet;  
Government agencies  
People  DeVos, Betsy; Carson, Ben; Puzder, Andrew F; Pruitt, Scott; Trump, Donald J  
Company / organization  Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS: 924110;  
Name: Department of Education  
NAICS: 923110;  
Name: Department of Housing & Urban Development--HUD  
NAICS: 925110  
Title  Main Street: Donald Trump's Abolitionist Cabinet  
Author  McGurn, William  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.15  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Feb 14, 2017  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1867821220  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1867821220?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2019-03-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 93 of 376 


Can We Trust Congress With a Carbon Tax? 

Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]14 Feb 2017: A.16. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Can+We+Trust+Congress+With+a+Carbon+Tax%3F&title=Wall+Street 02-14&volume=&issue=&spage=A.16&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Australia tried a carbon tax and then repealed it after rising energy costs hurt consumers, devastated the coal industry, killed jobs and contributed to a sluggish economy. 

Full Text 
George Shultz and James Baker III provide "A Conservative Answer to Climate Change" (op-ed, Feb. 8). Their plan offers so many economically efficient and effective alternatives to today's administrative-state patchwork of regulations that the conservative answer to climate change raises the question: What could possibly go wrong? In the real world of revenue-starved Washington, with political power bouncing between left and right based on a few million swing voters and close to zero trust in government, a carbon tax and dividend to be followed by deregulation is ripe for abuse. How much bureaucratic slippage will occur between collection and distribution? Is a guarantee of post-tax deregulation more rock solid than were the guarantees of long-term budget-deficit reduction after short-term federal spending increases? 
From a purely economic standpoint, the Shultz-Baker proposal has a great deal to like. Politically, the plan might help bridge the enormous gap between conservatives and reasonable environmental activists on the left. Unfortunately, Americans cannot trust their representatives to stick with any plan for new taxes, tax rebates and deregulation for any period longer than a two-year election cycle. Democrats could retake the White House and Congress and double the carbon tax, convert the dividend-payment plan into an income-redistribution plan and restore any climate-change regulations weakened or abandoned after carbon-tax implementation. 
David Anderson 
Laurel, Md. 
The carbon tax proposed by Messrs. Shultz and Baker is still a net cost to the economy even if the tax is refunded to taxpayers. Replacing less expensive energy with more 
expensive energy will slow economic growth. It's better to rely on competitive market forces to develop energy sources that are less costly than fossil fuels. 
We need more disinterested climate research, not more taxes. 
Ed Kahl 
Woodside, Calif. 

A CO2 tax, unlike a cap-and-trade program, doesn't guarantee any level of CO2 reduction, only a flow of cash to the government. For a time the Obama administration attempted to "convolute" the successful SO2 cap-and-trade concept and turn it into a giant government ATM by mandating a government auction for all proposed CO2 allowances issued, and thus was born the phrase "cap and tax." There are better ways to address the carbon issue than though more government taxation. 
G.R. Hart Vestavia Hills, Ala. 
An "increasing tax" on American businesses is a terrible idea. Australia tried a carbon tax and then repealed it after rising energy costs hurt consumers, devastated the coal 
industry, killed jobs and contributed to a sluggish economy. 
President Trump has already made strides in his work to turn around the U.S. economy with actions that are actually conservative and pro-growth. He needs to reject any voices 
from the past that push for new taxes on the American people. 

David McIntosh Washington Mr. McIntosh is president of the Club for Growth. 
Why do we vote for Republicans if this is what we get? Mark Bedor 
South Pasadena, Calif. 
(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Carbon;  
Taxes;  
Climate change;  
Environmental tax  
Company / organization  Name: Congress  
NAICS: 921120  
Title  Can We Trust Congress With a Carbon Tax?  
Author  Anonymous  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.16  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Feb 14, 2017  
Section  Letters to the Editor  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1867811254  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1867811254?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-24  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 94 of 376 


A 'Green Leap Forward' in China? What a Load of Biomass 
Lomborg, Bjorn.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]03 Feb 2017: A.17. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=A+%27Green+Leap+Forward%27+in+China%3F+What+a+Load+of 02-03&volume=&issue=&spage=A.17&au=Lomborg%2C+Bjorn&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
In the regions of the U.S. where curtailment occurs, wind farms only have to turn off around 4% of the time, according to a 2014 National Renewable Energy Laboratory study. The next-biggest renewable energy source after biomass is neither solar nor wind but hydropower, electricity produced by the energy from water. 

Full Text 
Excitement crackled through the environmental movement when China's National Energy Administration announced last month that the country will spend at least $360 billion on green energy through 2020. Green elites are now toasting the communist country: While President Trump threatens to end costly climate policies, Chinese President Xi Jinping promises his nation will continue to fight climate change. 
It's an interesting narrative, but the facts tell a different story. China's announced investment works out to around $72 billion a year, much less than the $103 billion the country spent in 2015. When China's high growth rate is factored in, the green spending appears even less impressive. 
But this also glosses over the reality of how hard the transition will actually be. China is a coal-reliant nation, and renewable energy is only a tiny component of the country's economy. There is also something absurd about asserting the green credentials of a nation where, according to Pew Research, 75% of people feel air and water pollution is a moderate or very big problem. 
More than 40% of China's 2015 spending on renewable energy went to wind power. Wind turbines were once associated with Denmark, but China has become the fastest and biggest adopter. It leads the world even as production slacked slightly in 2016. 
The country has invested so heavily that it has an oversupply of wind turbines, though last year it went from installing two wind turbines an hour to around one. They're highly inefficient, partly because grid development has lagged behind the number of wind farms being built. In 2014 Chinese wind-energy capacity outstripped the U.S. by some 75%, according to a 2016 study by researchers at Carnegie Mellon University. Yet China generated less electricity with its turbines than the U.S. did. What happened? 
In one Chinese province, 39% of wind energy had to be curtailed, meaning it was turned off and unused around three days a week. In the regions of the U.S. where curtailment occurs, wind farms only have to turn off around 4% of the time, according to a 2014 National Renewable Energy Laboratory study. 
The National Energy Administration even instructed authorities in Gansu, Inner Mongolia, Jilin, Heilongjiang, Ningxia and Xinjiang to stop approving wind-power projects until the country's infrastructure can keep pace with the new form of energy production. 
Wind power is also expensive. The International Energy Agency documents that electricity from currently completed renewables is 80% to 250% more expensive than coal power. The Carnegie Mellon study also found that the cost of wind electricity can be 50% to 200% more expensive than predicted. The academics say that drops in demand, utilization rates, and coal prices in recent years may lead to even higher prices. 
The focus on China's big renewable-energy investment diverts attention away from actions that are less in keeping with its green image. China installed record numbers of coal plants in 2015 and the first half of 2016, according to the International Energy Agency. For all of the talk about China's huge investments in wind and solar energy, the agency found that in 2014, the latest year for which data are available, 66% of Chinese energy needs were met by coal power. Wind energy supplied 0.4%. Wind will grow, but coal will remain a dominant energy source for China in the decades to come. 
It is peculiar -- though unsurprising given the sensibilities of Western environmentalists -- that those who celebrate China's "Green Leap Forward" almost always focus on wind and solar technology. By far the largest source of renewable energy used in China is traditional biomass -- that is, people burning charcoal, firewood and dung, as China's poor do to stay warm. Biomass is the biggest source of killer air pollution in the world. 
The next-biggest renewable energy source after biomass is neither solar nor wind but hydropower, electricity produced by the energy from water. 
Talking about capacity is much more impressive than looking at actual contributions to a country's energy mix. You will often hear that China outstrips the world in hydropower capacity. You're less likely to be told that this supplies only 3% of China's energy needs. By 2040, if China does everything it promised in the Paris Agreement on climate change, the renewable share will increase only four percentage points, with the majority still coming from biomass and hydro. 
Living up to the Paris climate promise of reducing carbon dioxide per economic unit will likely cost at least $200 billion or more a year in lost production, according to my analysis using Asian economic models. China's bold talk notwithstanding, it remains to be seen whether future leaders will tolerate such a substantial economic loss. 
Judged on today's reality -- and not simply rhetoric -- China is less of a green success, and more of a warning tale. Switching to green energy before it is competitive is hard. Very hard. 
Mr. Lomborg, director of the Copenhagen Consensus Center, is the author of "The Skeptical Environmentalist" (Cambridge Press, 2001) and "Cool It" (Knopf, 2007). 
Credit: By Bjorn Lomborg 
(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Wind power;  
Renewable resources;  
Environmental protection  
Location  China  
People  Xi Jinping  
Title  A 'Green Leap Forward' in China? What a Load of Biomass  
Author  Lomborg, Bjorn  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.17  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Feb 3, 2017  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1864014183  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1864014183?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2019-03-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 95 of 376 


The 45th President: On Trump's Agenda: Major Policy Shifts 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]21 Jan 2017: A.7. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=The+45th+President%3A+On+Trump%27s+Agenda%3A+Major+Policy+ 01-21&volume=&issue=&spage=A.7&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Mr. Trump's nomination for the Supreme Court comes after Republicans stymied President Barack Obama's March 2016 nomination of Merrick Garland, chief judge of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. 

Full text 
Global Hot Spots Vie For White House Focus The new commander in chief has vowed to accelerate the fight against Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, where U.S. troops since mid-2014 have backed an offensive by local 
forces to oust the group from its self-declared caliphate. President Donald Trump has said the campaign against Islamic State is his No. 1 priority. 
Already, a U.S.-led coalition has conducted more than 16,000 airstrikes on Islamic State targets and retaken well over half the group's territory in Iraq, as well as a swath of the land it captured in Syria. Beyond Islamic State, Mr. Trump comes into office as the Pentagon is preparing its defenses to counter Iran, North Korea, Russia and China, and has about 5,000 troops in Iraq 
and nearly 10,000 in Afghanistan. 
Mr. Trump has already drawn a red line on North Korea. In a Jan. 2 tweet, he vowed to stop North Korea from developing a nuclear weapon capable of reaching parts of the U.S. 
The future of U.S. defense policy toward Europe may depend on whether the new secretary of defense, retired Marine Corps Gen. James Mattis, can persuade Mr. Trump of the 

North Atlantic Treaty Organization's value. 
Mr. Trump has criticized NATO as being obsolete and beset by free-riding nations relying on the U.S. 
So far, Mr. Trump's comments appear to presage warmer relations with Russia, which could affect policies in Europe and Syria, and colder relations with China. He has enraged 

Beijing by refusing to commit to the longstanding "One China" policy, by which the U.S. de-recognized Taiwan to establish formal diplomatic relations with China. 
-- Paul Sonne 

Conservative 
Court Pick 
Expected to 
Come Soon 
Within two weeks of taking office, President Donald Trump plans to announce a Supreme Court nomination, a move to restore a conservative majority on the divided bench that 

many Republicans feared was lost when Justice Antonin Scalia died in February. 
In making his pick, Mr. Trump has repeatedly said he will follow the guidance of a conservative legal establishment that has directed the GOP approach to judicial appointments 

since the Reagan administration. Leaders of the Heritage Foundation and the Federalist Society, a conservative lawyers network, helped Mr. Trump identify 21 potential Supreme Court nominees; he in turn won their confidence by promising to appoint one to the vacancy. The list includes several state supreme court judges. But people close to the process say the front-runners remain names long familiar in Washington: conservative judges who 
have demonstrated their ideological bona fides through service on a federal appeals court -- yet remain young enough to serve on the high court for two or more decades. Mr. Trump's nomination for the Supreme Court comes after Republicans stymied President Barack Obama's March 2016 nomination of Merrick Garland, chief judge of the U.S. 
Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. The blockade of the center-left jurist, whom the White House saw as a consensus candidate, infuriated Democrats, and new Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D., N.Y.) has vowed to oppose Trump nominees who are "out of the mainstream." Mr. Trump's list begins with William Pryor of the Atlanta-based 11th Circuit and Diane Sykes of the Chicago-based Seventh Circuit. At a Republican debate hours after Justice 
Scalia's death, Mr. Trump named both as "fantastic people" who might fill his shoes. -- Jess Bravin Environmental Rules 
Set to Be Early Targets 
At the top of the new administration's energy and environmental agenda will be unraveling its predecessor's policies on everything from carbon emissions to water. 
Much of the early action will focus on rolling back regulations. President Donald Trump has said he would withdraw President Barack Obama's signature policy to address climate change, a rule that cuts power-plant carbon emissions. The rule already has faced legal challenges and has been temporarily blocked by the Supreme Court. 
The Trump administration, with the help of the Republican-controlled Congress, also will work toward repealing an Environmental Protection Agency rule bringing more bodies of water under federal jurisdiction. Also targeted for repeal: Interior Department rules that require tougher standards for coal mining near streams and that set new standards for emissions of methane, a potent greenhouse gas, from oil and natural-gas wells on federal lands. 
While the Trump administration can't unilaterally repeal most rules on its first day, it has several options. The EPA and other agencies can immediately start the process of withdrawing regulations, and they can relax compliance requirements over time. Meanwhile, Congress can pass measures nullifying rules that have been completed most recently. 
Mr. Trump has said he would pull the U.S. out of the global climate agreement adopted in Paris in 2015. Mr. Trump's choice for secretary of state, former Exxon Mobil Corp. Chief Executive Rex Tillerson, told lawmakers at his confirmation hearing he thought the U.S. was better served staying in the deal than withdrawing, but he said Mr. Trump would make any ultimate decision. 
-- Amy Harder 
Health-Care Battle Revs Up President Donald Trump has entered the White House grappling with a lightning rod in the thicket of U.S. domestic-policy issues -- health care. The president's party has already begun working on the repeal -- and potential replacement -- of former President Barack Obama's signature health-care law, but the task of 
reworking a sweeping social program six years into its lifespan is proving messy. 
Republicans, including Mr. Trump, have put forward various ideas to serve as alternatives to the major provisions of the Affordable Care Act, which extended insurance to millions of Americans but also triggered criticism over rising premiums for some users and insurer withdrawals. The GOP has yet to unify behind a single plan, and it remains unclear how much influence Mr. Trump and his administration will exert, and how much the president's team will 
leave to four congressional committees and other groups of lawmakers to hash out in Congress. 
Ultimately, that decision comes down to several questions, including how much backlash Mr. Trump is willing to endure to remake health care along GOP lines and how closely Republicans can work with Democrats to pass alternative legislation. Democratic votes would be needed for some measures to get through the closely divided Senate. A handful of centrist Senate Republicans, meanwhile, could also curb their party's ambitions to remake U.S. health policy. The GOP's margin of power in the upper chamber is a 
slender 52-48, leaving little room for defections. 
The president has said he wants Congress to act quickly to undo the law and enact new legislation. He personally favors allowing people who buy insurance on their own to fully deduct premiums on their tax returns. He also supports enabling people in one state to buy coverage from an insurer in another. On some health-care matters, however, Mr. Trump differs from conservative orthodoxy. He has repeatedly criticized drugmakers, signaling he would like to ease rising 
pharmaceutical prices by allowing consumers access to medications from overseas or giving the government a greater role in negotiating drug purchases for Medicare. Shares of drugmakers fell sharply when Mr. Trump repeated such remarks at a Jan. 11 news conference. Health care represents almost one-fifth of the U.S. economy. -- Louise Radnofsky 
Nuclear Deal 
With Iran 
Now Faces 
A Tough Test 
The deal the U.S. and five other world powers reached with Iran to curtail the country's nuclear program in exchange for sanctions relief has been heavily criticized by President 

Donald Trump. 
In a recent interview with the Times of London and Germany's Bild, Mr. Trump said the accord was "one of the worst deals ever made" and that he was unhappy with it -­
though he declined to say whether he would scrap the agreement, as he had on the campaign trail. Mr. Trump's national-security appointments signaled in confirmation hearings that the new president wouldn't tear up the accord right away, if at all. Retired Gen. James Mattis, Mr. Trump's nominee for defense secretary, said last week that the U.S. should closely monitor Iran's compliance with the accord rather than get rid 
of it altogether. Rex Tillerson, Mr. Trump's choice for secretary of state, said he would recommend that Mr. Trump do a full review of the nuclear deal. 
The nuclear deal took effect in January 2016, after the world powers announced its completion in July 2015 and following staunch Republican opposition, as well as concerns from Gulf Arab allies and Israel. President Barack Obama and other U.S. officials had voiced some optimism the deal might usher in an era of cooperation with Iran, but it has continued destabilizing behavior in 
the Mideast since the deal's implementation. -- Felicia Schwartz Immigration Revamp Likely 
After campaigning for the White House promising hard-line immigration policies, President Donald Trump now has the opportunity to implement them. In some cases, he can act alone; other changes will require congressional approval. 
The most immediate -- and politically fraught -- question regards a program that gives temporary work permits and safe harbor from deportation to about 750,000 young people brought to the U.S. illegally as children. Mr. Trump has promised to kill the program, but these so-called Dreamers are a sympathetic group. He recently promised to "work something out" but hasn't said what that might be. 
Mr. Trump is also set to overhaul former President Barack Obama's system of immigration enforcement, which targeted illegal immigrants convicted of serious crimes but reassured others that they probably wouldn't face deportation. Mr. Trump says he, too, would focus on criminals, though he has also said all 11 million undocumented immigrants would be subject to deportation. Stepped-up enforcement under his administration is expected. 
Expect the new administration to pressure "sanctuary cities" -- jurisdictions across the country with policies limiting how much local officials assist in immigration enforcement efforts -- to cooperate with federal authorities. Federal agencies may be able to cut off some grant funding to these cities right away, though withholding other federal support would likely require legislation. 
Mr. Trump built his campaign on a pledge to build an "impenetrable physical wall" on the U.S. border with Mexico. He said that he would begin work on "day one" and that Mexico would pay for it. 
Republican lawmakers are considering appropriating money needed for increased border security in spending legislation that must pass by April. That could put the project on a fast track, though many say they envision additional fencing rather than a wall. At a recent news conference Mr. Trump insisted, "It's not a fence. It's a wall." 
Mr. Trump also acknowledged that U.S. taxpayers would be paying the bill, but promised that Mexico would reimburse the U.S. later. Mexican leaders say they won't. 
Conservative immigration activists are most eager for Congress to require all employers to use the federal E-Verify system to check the immigration status of potential employees. 
Mr. Trump backs this idea, and it likely has sufficient support in the House. It is unclear whether Senate Republicans would be able to overcome a near-certain Democratic filibuster. 
-- Laura Meckler 
Trade Talk: Separating Bark From Bite in Tariff Threats In coming months, President Donald Trump will show how serious he was about deviating from Washington's free-trade orthodoxy and using the threat of tariffs to address what 
he calls the unfair trade practices of China, Mexico and other countries. 
Mr. Trump and his key advisers have criticized the global trading system as unfair because the U.S. market is more open to freely traded goods and investment than some other economies. "Free trade doesn't mean anything," Mr. Trump said in an interview with The Wall Street Journal on Jan. 13. "It's not free if China sends its products here and we can't send our 
products there." 
Mr. Trump has said that as soon as Day One of his administration he'd pull the U.S. out of the unratified Trans-Pacific Partnership, the trade agreement that the Obama 

administration signed with 11 other nations around the Pacific, not including China. The U.S. should remind other countries that it can restrict $2.2 trillion in imports to right alleged wrongs coming from trading partners, he said. Since his victory, Mr. Trump has played down earlier threats of imposing tariffs of 35% or more on goods made in China, Mexico or other countries and shipped to the U.S. In 
recent weeks Mr. Trump has focused on persuading U.S. companies to hire domestically instead of abroad. -- William Mauldin 
Fight Over Tax Plan Looms, 
Including With the GOP 
The new administration has a chance to guide the biggest tax-policy changes since 1986 into law, but that is likely to require a complex, drawn-out, politically challenging fight. 
Despite near-unanimous Republican agreement on cutting marginal tax rates, the party is conflicted over offsetting the revenue loss to the government. President Donald Trump 

is already clashing with members of his own party in Congress on a crucial piece of their plan, and other divisions loom when lawmakers wade further into details. 

Tax policy is poised to occupy much of the 2017 agenda in Congress: House Republicans are writing their plan, and they see Mr. Trump's election as a once-in-a-generation opportunity. Mr. Trump will be looking to deliver on his promises of huge tax cuts. The breadth of his ambitions could cause fractures. Mr. Trump campaigned on a multitrillion-dollar tax-cut plan. Even with aggressive economic growth assumptions, his 
campaign didn't assume the tax plan could pay for itself. Congressional Republicans say they are trying to make their plan roughly revenue-neutral by broadening the tax base. 
To do that, House Republicans proposed several measures to broaden the U.S. tax base while they cut the top individual tax rate from 39.6% to 33%, the corporate tax rate from 35% to 20% and the rate on business income reported on individual tax returns from 39.6% to 25%. -- Richard Rubin 


(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Policy making;  
International relations-US  
People  Trump, Donald J  
Title  The 45th President: On Trump's Agenda: Major Policy Shifts  
Author  Anonymous  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.7  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Jan 21, 2017  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1860269428  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1860269428?accountid=14902  

Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-24  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 96 of 376 


Keeping Cool About Hot Temperatures 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]20 Jan 2017: A.18. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Keeping+Cool+About+Hot+Temperatures&title=Wall+Street+Journal 01-20&volume=&issue=&spage=A.18&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The Cato Institute's Patrick Michaels has detailed in these pages how in 1998, another big El Nino year, average surface temperatures increased about a quarter-degree Fahrenheit and then dropped in the following years. 

Full Text 
By now you've seen the headline: 2016 was the hottest year on record. The news has been paired with predictions of civilization's imminent demise. But a closer look at the evidence reveals that the political heat is overwrought -- and there's still no reason to re-engineer the global economy to mitigate small climate fluctuations. 
The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) announced this week that last year was the warmest in the agency's 137-year series, and that 2016 broke the previous record for the third consecutive year. This sounds alarming, until you read that 2016 edged out 2015 by a mere 0.04 degrees Celsius. That's a fraction of the margin of error. Atmospheric data from satellites detected similarly small warming over previous years. In other words, no one really knows if last year was a record. 
Here's what we do know: 2015 and 2016 were major years for El Nino, a Pacific trade winds phenomenon known to produce temperature spikes. The Cato Institute's Patrick Michaels has detailed in these pages how in 1998, another big El Nino year, average surface temperatures increased about a quarter-degree Fahrenheit and then dropped in the following years. That is similar to the increase in 2015 -- and by the end of 2016 temperatures were falling back toward 2014 levels. Even NOAA admits El Nino's role. 
The underreported news here is that the warming is not nearly as great as the climate-change computer models have predicted. As climatologist Judith Curry testified to Congress in 2014, U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change simulations forecast surface temperatures to increase on average 0.2 degrees Celsius per decade in the early 21st century. The warming over the first 15 years was closer to 0.05 degrees Celsius. The models also can't explain why more than 40% of the temperature increase since 1900 happened between 1910 and 1945, which accounts for only 10% of the increase in carbon emissions. 
These nuances are important because phrases such as "hottest year ever" are waved around as a pretext for political action that usually involves giving more control over the economy to governments. This is inevitably sold as urgently required to save the planet. 
But even these regulations, taxes and subsidies would do little to reverse global temperature trends, though they could reduce the economic growth and wealth creation needed to cope with the consequences of higher temperatures. That is true of all President Obama's ministrations -- from the Clean Power Plan to the Paris climate accord to subsidies for Al Gore's green-energy portfolio. 
The most inconvenient truth during the Obama years has been that the biggest cause of lower U.S. CO2 emissions has been the energy shift to natural gas from coal. Yet the climate-change lobby opposes fracking. 
The Earth's surface has warmed over the last century by close to a degree Celsius, and the trend bears watching. But the additional questions to consider are about future magnitudes and impact, and what if any policies would make a difference without doing serious economic harm. The best insurance against the risks of climate change is economic growth and innovation -- more efficient batteries, for example. 
But adding to human knowledge on climate requires a thorough airing and debate over the evidence. That won't happen as long as alarmists continue to try to shut down debate by spinning doomsday tales about sizzling temperatures. 
(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Climate change; 
Economic growth; 

Temperature; 
Ocean currents; 

Greenhouse effect; 
Editorials 


Company / organization 	Name: National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration--NOAA 

NAICS: 924120 


Title 	Keeping Cool About Hot Temperatures 
Author  Anonymous  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.18  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Jan 20, 2017  
column  REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  1860026101  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1860026101?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2018-10-16  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 97 of 376 


Trump's Nominees Stick to His Script --- In hearings, picks for Commerce, EPA and health care push to reverse Obama policies 
Reinhard, Beth.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]19 Jan 2017: A.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Trump%27s+Nominees+Stick+to+His+Script+--­+In+hearings%2C+picks+for+Commerce%2C+EPA+and+health+care+push+to+reverse+Obama+policies&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2017-01­19&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Reinhard%2C+Beth&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Some GOP senators took a more cautious tone during the confirmation hearing of Rep. Tom Price, a Georgia Republican nominated by Mr. Trump to lead the Department of Health and Human Services. 

Full Text 
Donald Trump's cabinet picks took a tough line Wednesday on Chinese trade practices and federal environmental regulations, reflecting the president-elect's antiestablishment 

agenda. 
The president-elect's nominees in last week's confirmation hearings -- many chosen for national security posts -- took pains to show they could be independent from Mr. Trump 
on foreign-policy matters. This week, the designees facing senators represented the leading edge of Mr. Trump's push to reverse the domestic policies advanced by President 
Barack Obama's administration. 

The would-be leaders of agencies overseeing the environment, health care, commerce and education represent Mr. Trump's plans to disrupt the status quo by battling the 
agencies they hope to lead. Mr. Trump's pick to lead the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt, the Oklahoma attorney general, testified that the agency made its own 
laws and ignored the role of states in environmental regulation. 

"EPA is an administrative body. It is not a legislative body," he said. 
Senate Democrats accused the Republican president-elect's nominees of putting special interests before the public welfare. 
"This is a swamp cabinet full of bankers and billionaires," said U.S. Sen. Charles Schumer of New York, the Senate's Democratic leader. "Many of them have hard-right views." 
Last week's hearings, by contrast, were punctuated by sporadic Democratic praise for nominees who were, at times, out of step with some of Mr. Trump's positions. His chosen 

border security chief said a wall along the southern border wouldn't alone keep out illegal immigrants, while Mr. Trump's national security picks split with the president-elect on 

the threats posed by Russia and Iran and the military's use of torture. 
Praise from Senate Democrats was scarcer this week, as the latest set of nominees on Capitol Hill were accused of seeking to bulldoze the bureaucracies they have been tapped 
to oversee. The tension underscored the main battle lines separating the two political parties. 

"Trump was elected because voters saw him as an agent of change, and change is what they're going to get in these cabinet nominees," said Peter Wehner, who worked in the 
last three Republican administrations. 
Many of the nominees drew praise from Republican senators, who see the new administration as bringing a long overdue course-correction in policy. 
"Over the last eight years the Obama administration has advanced a radical environmental agenda," Sen. James Inhofe (R., Okla.) said. 

Referring to Mr. Pruitt, Mr. Inhofe said, "Scott has proven himself to be an expert at balancing economic growth with environmental stewardship." 
Some GOP senators took a more cautious tone during the confirmation hearing of Rep. Tom Price, a Georgia Republican nominated by Mr. Trump to lead the Department of 
Health and Human Services. Mr. Price has devoted significant time as a lawmaker to writing plans to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, known as Obamacare, and he is 
expected to play a major role in representing the new administration in that effort. 

Two Republicans, Lamar Alexander of Tennessee and Susan Collins of Maine, used the confirmation hearing to say they were wary of repealing the law without a firm plan to replace it. 
Mr. Price said he was committed to "bipartisan, team-driven policy-making" and didn't provide details on the incoming administration's vision for a new health-care law. 
But he addressed the Republicans' intent to replace the current law when he said: "One of the important things that we need to convey to the American people is that no one is 
interested in pulling the rug out from anybody." 

Democrats, who have little power to block the nominees, used the hearings to flesh out positions that they see as too conservative. 

Mr. Pruitt, who as Oklahoma attorney general has repeatedly sued the EPA, drew a tart response from Sen. Bernie Sanders, the independent from Vermont, when he said the 
climate was changing and human activity has an impact, but his opinion was "immaterial." 
"Really?" said Mr. Sanders, who unsuccessfully sought the Democratic presidential nomination last year. "You are going to be the head of the agency to protect the environment, 

and your personal feelings about whether climate change is caused by human activity and carbon emissions is immaterial?" 

Mr. Obama sought to make climate change part of his legacy through tighter rules on coal plants and automobile emissions. Mr. Trump has criticized the federal government for excessive environmental regulation, a view shared by Mr. Pruitt. 
The appropriate role of government was also debated in Mr. Price's confirmation hearing. 
Sen. Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, who like Mr. Sanders is a leader of the Democratic Party's liberal wing, pressed Mr. Price to heed Mr. Trump's pledge not to cut the 
Medicare or Medicaid programs. The congressman declined, saying it would depend on the quality of health-care coverage. 

"You might want to print out President-elect Trump's statement and post that above your desk in your new office, because Americans will be watching," Ms. Warren said. 

The mood was more cordial in Wednesday's hearings for South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley, tapped to be ambassador to the United Nations, and Commerce Secretary-designate 
Wilbur Ross. 
"You have comported yourself quite well," Sen. Bill Nelson, a Florida Democrat, told Mr. Ross. 
"Let me assure you that this hearing is a piece of cake compared to some of the other nominees that are going through the process." 
Credit: By Beth Reinhard 

(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Hearings & confirmations; 
Political appointments; 
Cabinet 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Trump, Donald J 
Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 

NAICS: 924110 


Title 	Trump's Nominees Stick to His Script --- In hearings, picks for Commerce, EPA and health care 
push to reverse Obama policies 

Author 	Reinhard, Beth 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.1 
Publication year 	2017 
Publication date 	Jan 19, 2017 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 	00999660 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	News 
ProQuest document ID 	1859709137 
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1859709137?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2019-02-07  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 98 of 376 


U.S. News: Democrats Plan To Grill EPA Pick 
Harder, Amy; Ballhaus, Rebecca.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]17 Jan 2017: A.6. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+Democrats+Plan+To+Grill+EPA+Pick&title=Wall+Stree 01-17&volume=&issue=&spage=A.6&au=Harder%2C+Amy%3BBallhaus%2C+Rebecca&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Mr. Pruitt has said he would focus on repealing regulations issued by Mr. Obama's EPA, including a centerpiece climate regulation cutting carbon emissions from power plants and another rule bringing more bodies of water under federal jurisdiction. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- President-elect Donald Trump is entering a week of potentially tough scrutiny for his selections to reverse Barack Obama's environmental policies. 
Democrats have signaled that among Trump officials they will fight the hardest is Scott Pruitt, Mr. Trump's choice to head the Environmental Protection Agency. Mr. Pruitt, whose confirmation hearing is Wednesday, has indicated he is skeptical that humans are responsible for climate change, and he has challenged an array of Obama environmental rules in court as Oklahoma's attorney general since 2010. 
Rep. Ryan Zinke (R., Mont.), Mr. Trump's selection for interior secretary, faces lawmakers Tuesday, and the hearing for former Texas Governor Rick Perry, Mr. Trump's pick to head the Energy Department, is set for Thursday. 
But Mr. Pruitt's hearing is shaping up as center stage for the battle. Mr. Pruitt has said he would focus on repealing regulations issued by Mr. Obama's EPA, including a centerpiece climate regulation cutting carbon emissions from power plants and another rule bringing more bodies of water under federal jurisdiction. 
The Democrats' goal is to paint Mr. Trump's picks as out of step with Americans, scientists and the international community when it comes to climate change. They also hope to grill Mr. Pruitt on his ties to oil, natural gas and coal companies, in particular two political-action committees funded by energy companies that have supported Mr. Pruitt as Oklahoma attorney general. 
"Mr. Pruitt has blurred the distinction between official and political actions, often at the behest of corporations he will regulate if confirmed to lead EPA," said a letter sent recently by Democratic members of the Senate environment committee to the U.S. Office of Government Ethics. 
A spokesman for Mr. Trump's transition team declined to comment on those concerns. A coalition of more than 20 conservative interest groups sent a letter last week urging senators to back the nominee. 
In recent years, energy companies have given hundreds of thousands of dollars to two PACs linked to Mr. Pruitt: Liberty 2.0 and Oklahoma Strong Leadership PAC. In many cases, energy companies serving alongside Mr. Pruitt as parties to lawsuits filed against the EPA also contributed to his campaigns. 
Both PACs are expected to cease operations this month. Liberty 2.0 initially said it would continue raising money even if Mr. Pruitt entered the Trump administration, but has since changed course. "The PAC's purpose is no longer relevant and its leadership doesn't want its existence to be a distraction," said Charlie Spies, counsel to both PACs. 
Mr. Pruitt's supporters say the contributions don't represent a conflict of interest, but rather reflect his understanding that excessive regulation can choke businesses. 
Credit: By Amy Harder and Rebecca Ballhaus 
(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Hearings & confirmations; 
Environmental policy; 
Political appointments 


People 	Pruitt, Scott 
Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 

NAICS: 924110 


Title 	U.S. News: Democrats Plan To Grill EPA Pick 
Author  Harder, Amy; Ballhaus, Rebecca  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.6  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Jan 17, 2017  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1858835378  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1858835378?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-24  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 99 of 376 


Nuclear Power Sounds the Retreat --- Operators are closing facilities in the face of cheap natural gas and political criticism 
Gold, Russell; Sweet, Cassandra.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]10 Jan 2017: B.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Nuclear+Power+Sounds+the+Retreat+--­+Operators+are+closing+facilities+in+the+face+of+cheap+natural+gas+and+political+criticism&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2017-01­10&volume=&issue=&spage=B.1&au=Gold%2C+Russell%3BSweet%2C+Cassandra&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The extraction technique has unlocked vast amounts of natural gas, making generating electricity from that fuel much less expensive and lowering power prices across the U.S. Entergy cited competition from natural gas as a key factor in the closure of Indian Point on Monday, disclosing that it will recognize a $2.4 billion pretax impairment charge in connection with the plant's closure. 

Full Text 
Utilities are closing U.S. nuclear-power plants at a rapid clip as they face competition from cheaper sources of electricity and political pressure from critics. 
New York's Indian Point plant about 35 miles north of Manhattan, a major source of power for the city and its surrounding suburbs, is the latest casualty. Owner Entergy Corp. said Monday that it will close the facility as part of an agreement with the state of New York, whose governor, Andrew Cuomo, has long criticized the plant as a safety threat. 
Its closure would bring the tally of plants set to close by 2025 to four, including PG&E Corp.'s Diablo Canyon plant in California and Entergy's Palisades unit in Michigan. Four others have already closed in the past four years, including Dominion Resources Inc.'s Kewaunee plant in Wisconsin. 
The retirements are poised to leave 61 nuclear plants in the U.S. by the middle of the next decade. That includes two facilities that are building new reactors. A small number of nuclear plants have closed in the past because of safety concerns or the need for expensive repairs. The new twist is the number of plants closing that are licensed and operational but no longer profitable in competitive markets. 
Nuclear plants everywhere are facing a powerful economic foe: fracking. The extraction technique has unlocked vast amounts of natural gas, making generating electricity from that fuel much less expensive and lowering power prices across the U.S. 
Entergy cited competition from natural gas as a key factor in the closure of Indian Point on Monday, disclosing that it will recognize a $2.4 billion pretax impairment charge in connection with the plant's closure. 
"Record low gas prices, due primarily to supply from the Marcellus Shale formation, have driven down power prices by about 45%, or by about $36 per megawatt-hour, over the last 10 years, to a record low," said Bill Mohl, president of Entergy Wholesale Commodities. That reduced annual revenue by about $160 million for power plants such as Indian Point, he said. 
Despite making the decision to close the facility, Mr. Mohl worried that if the country loses too many nuclear plants, the result could be an overreliance on natural gas. "We know that with natural gas, at some point, there will be price movements," he said. 
Nuclear plants generated 20% of U.S. power in the past 12 months, following natural gas at 35% and coal at 30%, according to federal energy data. The remainder was 7% hydro, 6% wind and 1% solar. 
The increasingly poor economics of nuclear power have led nuclear-plant operators in New York, Illinois and elsewhere to seek new state subsidies to keep the plants operating. The owners argue that they create high-paying jobs in rural areas, and are critical tools to combat air pollution and climate change because they produce emissions-free electricity. 
Lawmakers in Connecticut, Ohio and Pennsylvania are expected to face tough choices in the next couple of years: Approve rate increases or other changes to bolster the finances of nuclear plants, or prepare for them to close. 
Exelon Corp., the largest U.S. nuclear-power-plant operator, has succeeded in persuading states to provide new financial incentives to keep its nuclear-power plants open. 
Last month, Illinois lawmakers voted to allow Exelon to collect as much as $235 million annually from customers in exchange for keeping two nuclear-power plants open. Earlier in 2016, the New York Public Service Commission agreed to pay as much as $480 million annually to keep three upstate nuclear plants open. Exelon operates two of the three, and has a deal to purchase the third from Entergy, pending federal approval. 
Joe Dominguez, Exelon's executive vice president for public policy, said states were paying for clean electricity, similar to how the federal government subsidizes wind and solar energy. Nuclear power "is the cheapest and most reliable zero-carbon resource," he said. 
FirstEnergy Corp. said recently that it could close three plants in Ohio and Pennsylvania absent better compensation for the power they provide. A FirstEnergy spokeswoman said the company had watched the Illinois legislation closely and hoped to negotiate something similar. 
Kristine Hartman, who tracks energy laws for the National Conference of State Legislatures, said she expects Arizona, New Jersey and New Mexico to consider modifying laws that encourage wind and solar to include nuclear as a power source free of greenhouse-gas emissions. 
Without more support, "you will continue to see plants that are challenged," said Maria G. Korsnick, the president and chief executive of the Nuclear Energy Institute, an industry advocacy group. 
An analysis by the U.S. Energy Information Administration found that when nuclear plants were closed, states raised their use of natural gas and coal to generate power. 
Jessica Lovering, director of the energy program at the Breakthrough Institute, an environmental think tank, said a modern gas plant can have just a dozen employees, while 

nuclear plants need upward of 1,000. 
Those large workforces are proving to be a political selling point as owners argue to state legislators that nuclear-power plants have great economic importance in rural areas. 
All five nuclear-power plants receiving new subsidies in Illinois and New York are located in rural areas. 

Still, the deals have been controversial. "I am pronuclear power, but I am not pro-bailing nuclear out," said Jeanne Ives, a Republican state representative from Wheaton, Ill. 

In New York, the deal brokered by Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat, to keep three upstate nuclear-power plants alive has been met by protests against what activists claim is a nuclear 
tax. 
The new subsidies have also riled up independent power producers, which claim that nuclear operators are being given an unfair advantage. 
Dynegy Inc. and NRG Energy Inc., which operate coal- and natural-gas-fired power plants, are suing New York regulators to reverse their decision to provide what they estimate 

could be more than $7 billionin subsidies to nuclear plants. 
Bob Flexon, chief executive of Houston-based Dynegy, said he hopes the Trump administration will set a national energy policy that allows for a level playing field. "Someone 
needs to let them know that you're killing coal if you throw billion-dollar subsidies to nuclear," Mr. Flexon said. 

Mike Vilensky contributed to this article. 
(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: Is the Closing of Indian Point a Gain or Loss?" -- WSJ Jan. 23, 2017) 
Credit: By Russell Gold and Cassandra Sweet 

(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Natural gas utilities; 
Electric utilities; 

Nuclear power plants; 


Shutdowns  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Dominion Resources Inc 221210;  
Name: NAICS:  PG & E Corp 551112, 221122;  
Name: NAICS:  Entergy Corp 221122, 551112  

Title  Nuclear Power Sounds the Retreat --- Operators are closing facilities in the face of cheap  
natural gas and political criticism  
Author  Gold, Russell; Sweet, Cassandra  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.1  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Jan 10, 2017  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  

Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1856826800  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1856826800?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 100 of 376 


Main Street: The Luck of the Donald 
McGurn, William.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]03 Jan 2017: A.15. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Main+Street%3A+The+Luck+of+the+Donald&title=Wall+Street+Jou 01-03&volume=&issue=&spage=A.15&au=McGurn%2C+William&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
On everything from the nuclear deal with Iran and the Paris agreement on climate change to fossil fuels, immigration and transgender bathrooms, the administration has relied principally on executive authority to impose the Obama agenda. The answer is you'd have America abstain from a U.N. Security Council resolution condemning the Jewish state -- and then have the secretary of state give a speech like the one he just delivered knocking the coalition government of Benjamin Netanyahu as the "most right-wing in Israeli history." 

Full Text 
"Everything in life is luck." The words are attributed to Donald Trump and they continue to make regular appearances in the press notwithstanding that the president-elect long ago declared it fake news. "I never made this ridiculous statement," he tweeted in 2014, in language that sounds much closer to the spirit of @realDonaldTrump. 
Even so, it takes nothing away from Mr. Trump's stunning Nov. 8 victory to note that he enters the Oval Office a very lucky president. For notwithstanding the formidable challenges ahead -- a dangerous world in which American leadership has been diminished, an anemic domestic economy that has led record numbers of Americans to give up hope of finding work, to name two -- the curious politics of the moment has set him up for some bigly successes early on. The irony is that it is not so much Mr. Trump's friends as his enemies who have put him in this lucky position. 
The list is long. So let's start from the top: 
Barack Obama. Remember President Obama's vow that he wasn't going to wait for Congress to act? Well, he didn't. And it wasn't just executive orders. On everything from the nuclear deal with Iran and the Paris agreement on climate change to fossil fuels, immigration and transgender bathrooms, the administration has relied principally on executive authority to impose the Obama agenda. 
But as this editorial page has noted, what can be done by the pen can be undone by the pen. By relying on executive power instead of the hard work of persuading Congress to pass legislation, Mr. Obama has set Mr. Trump up for some wonderful photo-ops as the new president uses his own executive authority to undo large chunks of the Obama legacy. 
John Kerry. Put it this way: If you wanted to make Mr. Trump an instant hero to Israel, what would you do? The answer is you'd have America abstain from a U.N. Security Council resolution condemning the Jewish state -- and then have the secretary of state give a speech like the one he just delivered knocking the coalition government of Benjamin Netanyahu as the "most right-wing in Israeli history." 
Whatever Mr. Kerry thought he was doing, his out-the-door slap at Israel is of a piece with the booing that the mention of Jerusalem received at the 2012 Democratic National Convention. At the beginning of this presidential race Mr. Trump raised fears about how pro-Israel he would be when he said he'd be "neutral" between the Israelis and Palestinians. Now he's a hero simply for not insulting and demeaning the elected choice of the Israeli people the way Mr. Obama has. 
Sally Jewell. Throughout the election Mr. Trump made coal miners his special cause, promising to restore mining jobs killed by Obama-era regulations. Interior Secretary Jewell is apparently hard at work making it easier for Mr. Trump to show he's making good on his promise. The vehicle is an 11th-hour rule that would give federal regulators more power to deny coal-mining permits. 
Here's the gift: The rule goes into effect a day before Mr. Trump is sworn in as president. That leaves 60 legislative days for Congress to stop it from going into effect under the Congressional Review Act. Already Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has promised that Republicans will use that act to kill the regulation. Which will likely end with a nice ceremony with Mr. Trump surrounded by grateful coal miners as he announces how he and his party have saved the industry from another coal-killing regulation. 
Harry Reid. In 2013 the then-Senate majority leader was determined to stop the then-Republican minority from blocking Obama nominees. So he pushed through what the New York Times called "the most fundamental alteration of its rules in more than a generation." Under the Reid rules, President Obama needed only a simple majority to get his nominees through, not the 60 votes to stop a GOP filibuster. 
Plainly this made it easier for President Obama. But President Trump will enjoy the same advantage in a Congress where his party already has a majority in both houses. 
Ted Cruz. When Justice Antonin Scalia died in February, the Texas senator ran an ad highlighting the importance of the Supreme Court on issues from the Second Amendment to religious liberty, highlighting a clip from an old interview in which Mr. Trump called himself "very pro-choice" and concluding "we cannot trust Donald Trump with these decisions." 
In May Mr. Trump responded by releasing a list of jurists broadly in the Scalia tradition. Now he can claim a mandate because he had released these names. So once again, Mr. Trump's critics -- in this case constitutional conservatives -- have set him up to make good on one of his most important campaign promises. 
Right now the punditry is chattering on about how Mr. Obama is using his remaining time in office to box Mr. Trump in. Maybe. But so far Mr. Trump has been blessed by his enemies' bad judgment. 
And nothing they are now doing suggests his luck -- or their bad judgment -- is going to change. 
Credit: By William McGurn 
(c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Presidency;  
Political leadership  
Location  Israel  
People  Trump, Donald J  
Title  Main Street: The Luck of the Donald  
Author  McGurn, William  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.15  
Publication year  2017  
Publication date  Jan 3, 2017  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1854727422  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1854727422?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2017 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2019-03-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 101 of 376 


Climateers Can't Handle the Truth 
Jenkins, Holman W, Jr.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]28 Dec 2016: A.13. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Climateers+Can%27t+Handle+the+Truth&title=Wall+Street+Journal 12-28&volume=&issue=&spage=A.13&au=Jenkins%2C+Holman+W%2C+Jr&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Exxon, not voters who oppose higher energy taxes; Exxon, not the governments that control 80% of the world's fossil fuel reserves and show no tendency to forgo the money available from them. 

Full Text 
Congrats are due for the term "climate denialist," which in 2016 migrated from Paul Krugman's column to the news pages of the New York Times. 
On Dec. 7, the term ascended to a place of ultimate honor when it figured in the headline, "Trump Picks Scott Pruitt, Climate Change Denialist, to Lead E.P.A." 
Unfortunately, never to be explained is precisely which climate propositions one must deny in order to qualify as a denialist. In zinging Mr. Pruitt, currently Oklahoma's attorney 

general, the Times rests its unspoken case on a quote from an article this year in National Review, in which he and a coauthor wrote: "Scientists continue to disagree about the 

degree and extent of global warming and its connection to the actions of mankind." 
But this statement is plainly true. No climate scientist would dispute it. Through all five "assessment reports" of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change -- sharer of Al 
Gore's Nobel prize -- the central puzzle has been "climate sensitivity," aka the "degree and extent" of human impact on climate. 

Greenpeace adopts the same National Review article to attack Mr. Pruitt, lying that he and a coauthor "claimed the science of climate change is 'far from settled.'" 
The science is not settled (science never is), but this is not what Mr. Pruitt was referring to. His plain, unmistakable words refer to a "major policy debate" that is "far from 

settled" -- a statement that indisputably applies even among ardent believers in climate doom. Witness the battle between wings of the environmental movement over the role of nuclear power. Witness veteran campaigner James Hansen's dismissal of the Paris agreement, which other climate campaigners celebrate, as "worthless words." These lies about what Mr. Pruitt wrote in a widely available article aren't the lies of authors carried away by enthusiasm for their cause. They are the lies of people who know 
their employers and audiences are beyond caring. 
Which brings us a two-part article in the New York Review of Books by representatives of the Rockefeller family charity, desperately trying to make the world care about their 

fantasy that Exxon is somehow a decisive player in the policy debate -- Exxon, not voters who oppose higher energy taxes; Exxon, not the governments that control 80% of the 
world's fossil fuel reserves and show no tendency to forgo the money available from them. 
The Rockefeller family's charitable attachment to the climate cause is understandable, though. Their money might instead be used to bring clean water to poor villages, 

immunize kids against disease, or improve education. But such programs can be evaluated and found wanting due to fraud or incompetence, whereas climate change is a cause 

to which money can safely be devoted to no effect whatsoever without fear of criticism. 
Twenty years before his successor became Mr. Trump's nominee to be secretary of state, Exxon's then-CEO Lee Raymond gave a much vilified speech in China -- a much 
misrepresented speech, too. 

He did not say humans were not influencing climate, but the degree was highly uncertain, and future warming was not a "rock-solid certainty," he said. 
He could not have known he was speaking near the peak of an observed warming trend, and that relatively little or no warming would be recorded over the next 20 years. 
He said poor countries would and should choose economic growth over suppressing fossil fuel use. They did, and some one billion fewer people today are living in extreme 

poverty (as defined by the World Bank). 

He said fossil energy would continue to fuel economic prosperity, though consumption growth would moderate with increased efficiency, and as poor countries devoted a share 
of their increasing wealth to environmental improvement. He was right. 
He predicted that technology would open up new reserves to fuel the global economy, though he didn't mention and perhaps didn't know about fracking. 
All in all, it was a performance, in many fewer words, far more cogent than the Rockefeller pieces, notable mainly for their childishness about both climate science and climate 

politics. 

Donald Trump, our new president-elect, has been tagged for indiscriminately referring to climate change as a hoax. Here's what he actually said at a campaign rally in South 
Carolina one year ago about climate advocacy: "It's a money-making industry, OK? It's a hoax, a lot of it." 
This statement, with its clearly framed qualifications, is true and accurate in every detail. It's a statement of basic truth that can be embraced, and increasingly should be, by 

exactly those people most concerned about man-made climate change. 
Yet it won't be, for reasons demonstrated by the New York Times' adoption of the term climate denialist, whose deliberately non-discriminating function we now take care to 
state precisely: It enables a kind of journalism that is unable -- incapacitates itself -- to stumble on truths that would be inconvenient to climate religion. 

(See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: Wind and Solar Can't Replace Coal and Gas" -- WSJ Jan. 3, 2017) 
Credit: By Holman W. Jenkins, Jr. 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Fossil fuels;  
Science;  
Climate change  
People  Pruitt, Scott  
Company  Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
Title  Climateers Can't Handle the Truth  
Author  Jenkins, Holman W, Jr  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.13  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Dec 28, 2016  
column  Business World  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1853264232  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1853264232?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 102 of 376 


Business News: Oil Producers Turn to Wind --- European energy firms take on offshore projects; a way to diversify experience 
Turner, Zeke; Kent, Sarah.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]27 Dec 2016: B.3. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Business+News%3A+Oil+Producers+Turn+to+Wind+--­+European+energy+firms+take+on+offshore+projects%3B+a+way+to+diversify+experience&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2016-12­27&volume=&issue=&spage=B.3&au=Turner%2C+Zeke%3BKent%2C+Sarah&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Offshore wind's competitiveness is highly subject to local power prices and government measures, including tax credits, subsidies and rate guarantees. 

Full text 
The Netherlands wants to build the world's largest offshore wind project, and an unlikely company is helping: Royal Dutch Shell PLC. 
The oil-and-gas giant is facing shareholder pressure to develop its renewable business. Add in falling construction costs for such projects, and Shell has decided to join a handful of other oil companies aiming to leverage their experience drilling under punishing conditions at sea. 
Norway's Statoil ASA is already building its third offshore wind farm, in the Baltic Sea, and is developing the world's first floating wind farm off the east coast of Scotland. Denmark's state-owned Dong Energy AS -- once a fossil-fuel champion -- is now the biggest player in the offshore wind market. 
A Shell-led consortium won a bid this month to build and operate a portion of the Netherlands' giant Borssele wind project in the North Sea. Once complete, the Shell-built section will generate enough power for roughly a million homes at a price of 54.50 euros ($56.98) per megawatt hour -- a customer rate approaching that of cheaper power sources like coal or gas. 
Offshore wind's competitiveness is highly subject to local power prices and government measures, including tax credits, subsidies and rate guarantees. Nonetheless, in European markets, the wind industry had thought near parity was years away. 
"Right now the offshore wind project is competitive with any power source," said Dorine Bosman, Shell's manager developing its wind business. 
Though historically more expensive to build than onshore wind farms, offshore projects can take advantage of less restricted space and stronger, more consistent winds. The technological arms race to build these complex projects economically is so heated that many companies, including Shell, won't disclose how much they are investing, treating their commitments like a trade secret. 
Fossil-fuel companies' push into wind reflects their growing sensitivity to global efforts to limit climate change and how that will affect consumer demand for their main offering: oil and gas. 
France's Total SA wants 20% of its portfolio to consist of low-carbon businesses within the next 20 years. Shell established a new division this year focused on investing in sources such as wind, solar and biofuels. Statoil has a $200 million fund for projects such as wind technology. 
Investments by big European oil companies in wind and other renewable energy sources remain small -- around 2% of their overall capital-spending budgets, according to McKinsey. The industry is cautious about betting big on alternatives after getting burned in the past. It remains unclear if offshore wind can be a steady moneymaker without government support. 
Credit: By Zeke Turner and Sarah Kent 

(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Offshore; Wind farms; Alternative energy  
Location  Netherlands; Baltic Sea; North Sea  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Statoil ASA 324110, 211111;  
Name: NAICS:  Total SA 447190, 324110, 211111;  
Name: NAICS:  DONG Energy AS 211111, 221122, 221210, 486110;  
Name: NAICS:  Royal Dutch Shell PLC 324110, 213112, 221210  
Title  Business News: Oil Producers Turn to Wind --- European energy firms take on offshore projects; a way to diversify experience  
Author  Turner, Zeke; Kent, Sarah  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.3  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Dec 27, 2016  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1852917491  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1852917491?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-24  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 103 of 376 


Obama's Midnight Express 
Strassel, Kimberley A.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]23 Dec 2016: A.13. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Obama%27s+Midnight+Express&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00 12-23&volume=&issue=&spage=A.13&au=Strassel%2C+Kimberley+A&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Since the election Mr. Obama has broken with all precedent by issuing rules that would be astonishing at any moment and are downright obnoxious at this point. 

Full Text 
Barack Obama isn't known for humility, though rarely has his lack of grace been more on display than in his final hours in office. The nation rejected his agenda. The president's response? To shove more of that agenda down the nation's gullet. 
Notice the growing and many ugly ways the Obama administration is actively working to undermine a Donald Trump presidency. Unnamed administration sources whisper stories about Russian hackers to delegitimize Mr. Trump's election. These whispers began at about the same time Hillary Clinton officials began pressuring electors to defy election results and deny Mr. Trump the presidency. How helpful. 
Trump transition-team members report how Obama officials are providing them with skewed or incomplete information, as well as lectures about their duties on climate change. (No wonder Mr. Trump is bypassing those "official" intelligence briefings.) The Energy Department is refusing to provide the transition team with the names of career officials who led key programs, like those who attended U.N. climate talks. Sen. Ron Johnson recently sent a letter to President Obama voicing alarm over "burrowing," in which political appointees, late in an administration, convert to career bureaucrats and become obstacles to the new political appointees. 
But perhaps nothing has more underlined the Obama arrogance than his final flurry of midnight regulations. With each new proposed rule or executive order, Mr. Obama is spitefully mocking the nation that just told him "enough." 
The technical definition of a midnight regulation is one issued between Election Day and the inauguration of a new president. The practice is bipartisan. George W. Bush, despite having promised not to do so, pushed through a fair number of rules in his final months. But Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton were more aggressive, and Mr. Obama is making them look like pikers. 
Mr. Obama has devoted his last year to ramming through controversial and far-reaching rules. Whether it was born of a desire to lay groundwork for a Clinton presidency, or as a guard against a Trump White House, the motive makes no difference. According to a Politico story of nearly a year ago, the administration had some 4,000 regulations in the works for Mr. Obama's last year. They included smaller rules on workplace hazards, gun sellers, nutrition labels and energy efficiency, as well as giant regulations (costing billions) on retirement advice and overtime pay. 
Since the election Mr. Obama has broken with all precedent by issuing rules that would be astonishing at any moment and are downright obnoxious at this point. This past week we learned of several sweeping new rules from the Interior Department and the Environmental Protection Agency, including regs on methane on public lands (cost: $2.4 billion); a new anti-coal rule related to streams ($1.2 billion) and renewable fuel standards ($1.5 billion). 
This follows Mr. Obama's extraordinary announcement that he will invoke a dusty old law to place nearly all of the Arctic Ocean, and much of the Atlantic Ocean, off limits to oil or gas drilling. This follows his highly politicized move to shut down the Dakota Access pipeline in North Dakota. And it comes amid reports the administration is rushing to implement last-minute rules on commodities speculation, immigrant workers and for-profit colleges -- among others. 
Any action that is rushed is likely to be shoddy, especially if it's from the federal government. The point is for Mr. Obama to have his way and to swamp the Trump administration with a dizzying array of new rules to have to undo. That diverts manpower from bigger and better priorities. 
President Obama is hoping this work will prove too much and his rules will stand. He'd be making a good bet. George W. Bush promised to undo last-minute Clinton regulations. Yet a paper done in 2005 by Jason M. Loring and Liam R. Roth in Wake Forest Law Review found that a whopping 82% were left to stand. 
Then again, a Republican Congress seems ready and willing to invoke the Congressional Review Act, which allows legislators to reject rule-making. More important, Mr. Trump and his team seem to understand that Americans are angry at Mr. Obama's tendency to rule like an autocrat. They also surely know how damaging many of these Obama parting gifts (particularly energy rules) will prove to their own agenda. 
A Trump administration could send a powerful message to future presidents and build public support by highlighting the "midnight regulation" phenomenon and then making it a priority to ax every final Obama order. Single them out. Make a public list. Celebrate every repeal. That would be as profound a rebuke to the Obama legacy -- a legacy based on abuse of power -- as any other. 
Write to kim@wsj.com 
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service 
Credit: By Kimberley A. Strassel 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Federal regulation  
People  Obama, Barack  
Title  Obama's Midnight Express  
Author  Strassel, Kimberley A  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.13  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Dec 23, 2016  
column  Potomac Watch  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1851577541  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1851577541?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-24  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 104 of 376 


Upward Mobility: The Media Still Don't Get Trump 
Riley, Jason L.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]14 Dec 2016: A.21. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Upward+Mobility%3A+The+Media+Still+Don%27t+Get+Trump&title 12-14&volume=&issue=&spage=A.21&au=Riley%2C+Jason+L&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt, the president-elect's choice to head the Environmental Protection Agency, is branded a climate-change "denier" for writing that scientists "continue to disagree about the degree and extent of global warming and its connection to the actions of mankind." 

Full Text 
Republican pols and their supporters are accustomed to biased media coverage from a Washington press corps dominated by liberals, but there's reason to believe that Donald Trump could have it worse than his GOP predecessors. 
We are told that Mr. Trump's cabinet picks pose threats to the country ranging from merely grave to existential. Businessman Andy Puzder is unacceptable as labor secretary because he believes minimum-wage hikes hurt job growth. Never mind that McDonald's is currently replacing human cashiers with automated kiosks to counteract the unions' nationwide push for a $15 per hour minimum. 
Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt, the president-elect's choice to head the Environmental Protection Agency, is branded a climate-change "denier" for writing that scientists "continue to disagree about the degree and extent of global warming and its connection to the actions of mankind." Liberals often resort to name-calling to shut down serious policy debates. Only a racist would criticize affirmative action, and only a homophobe would oppose same-sex marriage, right? But now we've reached a point where questioning the impact of something is no different from denying that it exists. 
Retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson, the nominee for the Department of Housing and Urban Development, is knocked for having no expertise in housing policy or running a government agency, which is apparently more difficult than brain surgery. While Elaine Chao, a George W. Bush administration veteran who's been tapped to run the Transportation Department, is accused of being an "insider" -- i.e., having too much experience in government. Rex Tillerson, the chief executive of Exxon Mobil, is unfit for secretary of state because his company does business with Russia. The same people who questioned the president-elect's knowledge of foreign affairs during the campaign now tell us that he's surrounding himself with too much military brass. Well, make up your mind. 
Clearly, Mr. Trump can't win, and the best way forward for him may be to not even try. The media establishment's problems with the incoming president go deeper than ideology. The press still isn't over the fact that a nonpolitician won the White House. The Trump victory knocked veteran journalists off their stride. Most of the political know-it­alls who type and talk for a living misread the candidates and the public mood, and we're still coming to grips with that. Hillary Clinton promised to put the coal industry out of business and lost. Why should it shock or outrage anyone that Mr. Trump is appointing cabinet members who support the use of fossil fuels? 
The current hubbub over Mr. Trump's financial conflicts of interest resembles the debate over his tax returns during the campaign. The media was obsessed with getting Mr. Trump to make his returns public, but voters didn't care. Reporters are right to demand transparency when it comes to Mr. Trump's business dealings, and if he wants to maintain the trust of voters and not waste time warding off congressional investigations for the next four years, he'll be open about conflicts of interest and work to avoid them. 
But calls for Mr. Trump to sell off his hotel and real estate businesses to avoid conflicts set a bad precedent and discourage capable people who are not professional politicians from seeking elected office. Mr. Trump won in part due to the country's distrust and disappointment in traditional politicians, yet the media continue to hammer him for not behaving like one. 
There's no shortage of legitimate criticism of the president-elect. The tariff threats are as problematic as interference with Carrier's business model or the new administration's talk of another Obama-style Keynesian stimulus package. Evidence that Russia determined the outcome of the election exists only in the imagination of Democrats, but foreign cyberattacks are a real and growing threat, and Mr. Trump ought to take them more seriously than he has in recent interviews. His foolish comments about women, minorities and immigrants didn't prevent him from getting elected, but that doesn't make them any less inappropriate. 
At some point, Beltway journalists may become interested in closing the gap between their own concerns and priorities and those of their audience, but the current focus on recounts and fake news suggests that they aren't there yet. Mr. Trump makes it clearer every day, if not with every tweet, that he has zero interest in becoming the kind of workaday politician whom journalists would prefer to cover. So long as this standoff continues, denizens of the Fourth Estate will be catering mostly to each other and the political elites. 
"Most of Washington punditry," the late Christopher Hitchens once said, is "private letters, written to other pundits, appearing in public space." That's never been as true as it has since Donald Trump was elected. Voters deserve better. 
Credit: By Jason L. Riley 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details 
Subject 
Political appointments;  
News media  
People  Trump, Donald J  
Title  Upward Mobility: The Media Still Don't Get Trump  
Author  Riley, Jason L  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.21  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Dec 14, 2016  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1848395532  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1848395532?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-24  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 105 of 376 


World News: World Watch 

Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]10 Dec 2016: A.8. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=World+News%3A+World+Watch&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=0099 12-10&volume=&issue=&spage=A.8&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Mayumi Negishi --- CANADA Climate Pact Draws Widespread Support Canada's Liberal government and the bulk of provinces were set to endorse a pact late Friday to fight climate change, even as Prime Minister Justin Trudeau tries to revive the energy sector with the recent approval of two pipeline projects. 

Full Text 
EGYPT 
Cairo Blast Targets 
Security Forces 
A bombing in Cairo killed six members of the security forces and wounded three others on Friday, Egypt's interior ministry said, in the deadliest attack on the country's military 

in the capital since May. 
The bomb exploded between two police checkpoints on the main road leading to the pyramids at Giza, the ministry said, adding that an investigation was under way. 
A group called Hasm, or "Decisiveness," claimed responsibility for the attack. The government suspects the organization is linked to the now-banned Muslim Brotherhood. 
-- Dahlia Kholaif 

JAPAN 
Fukushima Cost to 
Reach $200 Billion 
Japan said Friday that it expects the total cost of the 2011 Fukushima nuclear accident to reach about $200 billion, nearly double earlier projections, spurring plans for further 

restructuring of the plant's operator. 
The Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry said it estimated the cost of compensating communities affected by the accident in 2011 would reach 8 trillion yen ($70 billion), up 

from a previous estimate of 5 trillion yen, while decontamination costs were projected to rise to 6 trillion yen from 4 trillion yen. Meanwhile, a ministry-appointed expert panel said that removing radioactive debris would cost 8 trillion yen, quadruple the earlier projection. In the accident, which followed a March 11, 2011, earthquake and tsunami, three of the six reactors at the Fukushima Daiichi plant suffered meltdowns. Some towns near the 
plant remain no-go zones because of radioactivity. -- Mayumi Negishi 
CANADA 
Climate Pact Draws 
Widespread Support 
Canada's Liberal government and the bulk of provinces were set to endorse a pact late Friday to fight climate change, even as Prime Minister Justin Trudeau tries to revive the 

energy sector with the recent approval of two pipeline projects. 
The climate pact is expected to endorse a federal carbon-pricing scheme, unveiled in October, as well as plans to phase out coal-powered electricity. 
It comes as U.S. President-elect Donald Trump signals Washington will move to lessen regulation in a bid to drum up more investment in U.S. resource development. 
Mr. Trudeau has positioned the fight against climate change as one of his government's signature issues, with the Liberal government aiming to reduce carbon output by 30% 

below 2005 levels before 2030. 
-- Paul Vieira 

(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Climate change  
Location  Egypt; Cairo Egypt  
People  Trudeau, Justin; Trump, Donald J  
Company / organization  Name: Society of Muslim Brothers  
NAICS: 813110  
Title  World News: World Watch  
Author  Anonymous  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.8  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Dec 10, 2016  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1847544671  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1847544671?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 106 of 376 


Companies Stay Course on Emissions 
Olson, Bradley; Sweet, Cassandra.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]09 Dec 2016: B.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Companies+Stay+Course+on+Emissions&title=Wall+Street+Journal&iss 12-09&volume=&issue=&spage=B.1&au=Olson%2C+Bradley%3BSweet%2C+Cassandra&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
From Houston to Silicon Valley, executives in the oil, power, retail, transportation and technology industries said their companies were locked into a lower-emissions trajectory driven in part by market forces such as cheaper prices for natural gas and wind power. 

Full Text 
Many big corporations continue to support efforts to reduce carbon emissions, vowing to stay the course despite the election of Donald Trump, who has promised to dismantle 
the Obama administration's climate agenda and chose a global-warming skeptic to lead the Environmental Protection Agency. 
From Houston to Silicon Valley, executives in the oil, power, retail, transportation and technology industries said their companies were locked into a lower-emissions trajectory 
driven in part by market forces such as cheaper prices for natural gas and wind power. 

Expectations from investors, activists and customers are also factors, along with pressure from regulators in states and other countries, they added. 
On the campaign trail, Mr. Trump called climate change a "hoax" and promised to abandon an international pact reached last year in Paris to reduce carbon emissions. 
He also pledged to repeal the Clean Power Plan, an Obama administration rule that aims to cut carbon emissions from power plants 32% by 2030. 
On Wednesday, the president-elect selected Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt, a critic of Obama administration regulations, as his EPA head. 
Mr. Trump had promised in an interview since his election to "keep an open mind" on the climate issue and met Monday in New York with former Vice President Al Gore, a 

climate activist. 
While many companies shared their positions with The Wall Street Journal on climate regulations before Mr. Pruitt's selection, several that were reached again afterward, 
including Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Google parent Alphabet Inc., said their stance remained unchanged. "Part of our plan to invest in renewables is to diversify our generation 

portfolio," said Melissa McHenry, a spokeswoman for utility American Electric Power Co. "All of those investments don't change with a change in administration. It's a long-term 
strategy." 
While the question of how and whether to respond to warming global temperatures continues to be debated in politics, especially among Republicans, many big corporations 

appear to see the transition to less carbon-intensive energy as a foregone conclusion -- and ultimately good for business. 
Companies world-wide committed a record $285 billion to clean-energy projects in 2015, according to a study by the Frankfurt School of Finance and Management. 
Days after the Nov. 8 U.S. election, Exxon Mobil Corp. signaled its continued support for the Paris climate deal. Suzanne McCarron, Exxon's vice president of public and 

government affairs, said on Twitter that the agreement was "an important step forward by governments in addressing the serious risks of #ClimateChange." 

Exxon this year lobbied other energy companies to support a carbon tax and to avoid a posture of opposing all regulations aimed at reducing carbon emissions, according to 
people familiar with the company's thinking. Large European oil companies have also pushed for a global price on carbon. 
Big utilities that burn coal, such as AEP, say they will continue their transition to cleaner energy sources -- even if Mr. Trump makes good on his pledge to reverse the Clean 

Power Plan. 

"With Donald Trump being elected, I think you'll continue with that movement" regardless of whether the clean-power regulation takes effect, said AEP Chief Executive Nick 
Akins. 
Wal-Mart, General Motors Co., Google and Gap Inc. also said their goals for renewable-energy use or emissions reductions remained intact. 
GM set a goal last September to get all its power from renewable sources by 2050. It estimates it is now saving about $5 million a year as a result of that shift and conservation 

measures. Wal-Mart plans by 2025 to power half its operations with renewable energy and cut its greenhouse gases 18%. 

Google said Tuesday it would reach its goal of buying enough renewable energy to match 100% of the amount of power that it uses, about 2.6 gigawatts, in 2017, earlier than it 
initially expected. It attributed that in part to cheap wind power in Oklahoma, where Google operates a data center. 
"We do believe climate change is real and that businesses should do what they can to address it, but we're doing this because it's good for business," said Gary Demasi, 

Google's director of global infrastructure. 

After Mr. Trump's victory, more than 350 companies, including Intel Corp., DuPont Co. and Monsanto Co., signed a pledge expressing support for the Paris climate agreement 
and U.S. efforts to reduce carbon emissions. That sentiment extends to international companies based outside the U.S. 
If Mr. Trump makes good on earlier promises to cancel regulations limiting emissions of carbon dioxide and methane, it would benefit a number of smaller energy companies. 

Smaller refinery companies have been pushing hard for an overhaul of the renewable-fuel standard, a federal mandate enforced by the EPA that requires refineries to blend an increasingly large amount of ethanol into U.S. gasoline. 
Sara Germano, Amy Harder and Rhiannon Hoyle contributed to this article. 
Credit: By Bradley Olson and Cassandra Sweet 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Clean technology; 

Alternative energy; 

Political campaigns; 
Energy industry; 

Climate change; 
Emissions control 


People 	Trump, Donald J 
Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 

NAICS: 924110 


Title 	Companies Stay Course on Emissions 
Author 	Olson, Bradley; Sweet, Cassandra 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	B.1 
Publication year 	2016 
Publication date 	Dec 9, 2016 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 	00999660 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	News 
ProQuest document ID 	1847412649 
Document URL 	https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1847412649?accountid=14902 
Copyright 	(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further 
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Last updated 	2017-11-23 
Database US Newsstream 
document 107 of 376 


Not So Risky Climate Business 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]09 Dec 2016: A.16. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Not+So+Risky+Climate+Business&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=0 12-09&volume=&issue=&spage=A.16&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
What if an abrupt change in policy strands fossil-fuel resources in the ground, which in turn crashes oil companies and then the global economy? IHS consulting recently released a rebuttal to this "carbon bubble" babble, and the dismantling deserves more attention. 

Full Text 
Among the many doomsday scenarios floated by the climate-change lobby is a theory that asks: What if an abrupt change in policy strands fossil-fuel resources in the ground, which in turn crashes oil companies and then the global economy? IHS consulting recently released a rebuttal to this "carbon bubble" babble, and the dismantling deserves more attention. 
Daniel Yergin and Elena Pravettoni of IHS looked at whether oil and gas assets pose a "systemic risk" to the world financial system, a danger floated by more than a few regulators. No less than Bank of England Governor Mark Carney warned in 2015 that limits on carbon could crater asset valuations and "potentially destabilize markets," as the damage rippled through insurers and banks with portfolios in oil. 
Not so much, says IHS. Oil-and-gas companies are not going belly up in an event similar to the collapse of Lehman Brothers. One reason is that about 80% of the value of most publicly traded oil companies is derived from "proved reserves," which are projects that will happen within a decade or so. In other words, companies aren't assuming as assets every drop of oil in the ground that they may or may not be able to develop. 
Regardless of forced carbon reductions or temperature spikes, the switch to alternative fuels will take decades. For some perspective, the authors note that the oil industry started up in 1859 but did not overtake coal as the world's largest energy source for about a century. Barring some technological breakthrough, no one expects oil to be a minority source of energy before 2050. Financial markets and insurance contracts can manage risks as they evolve year-to-year or even day-to-day. 
Perhaps the strongest evidence that oil companies won't blow up the world economy is that they've been stress-tested by the recent crash in commodity prices. Some 82 global oil companies burned off 42% of their value between June 2014 and December 2015, or about $1.4 trillion in market capitalization. Yet the report notes that since oil dipped below $100 a barrel in 2014, the Dow Jones Industrial Average has risen 6%. 
The panic over climate risk is really a pretext for more regulation. Mr. Carney chairs the Financial Stability Board, an international outfit that exists to flag financial risks and offer itself as the answer. An FSB task force later this month will deliver "guidelines for voluntary disclosure" that could cover assets and risk practices for oil companies as well as their investors. The report will likely be submitted to major country financial ministers for approval. 
Mr. Carney and the FSB are playing to climate activists, who want to use such disclosure as ammunition to pound pension and other investment funds to divest from fossil-fuel companies. Mr. Carney has also highlighted the climate-change free-speech probe led by New York's Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, which is based on flimsier evidence than even Mr. Carney's conjectures. 
The real financial risks are from Mr. Carney's attempt to turn certain kinds of legal investments into political targets. The political allocation of capital into housing was one of the root causes of the 2008 panic. Let's not politicize energy investing in the same way. 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Oil reserves; 

Disclosure; 
Petroleum industry; 

Risk exposure; 

Securities markets; 

Editorials 


People 	Carney, Mark 
Company / organization 	Name: Financial Stability Board 

NAICS: 813910 


Title 	Not So Risky Climate Business 
Author  Anonymous  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.16  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Dec 9, 2016  
column  REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  1847381044  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1847381044?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2019-01-02  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 108 of 376 


A Lawyer for a Lawless EPA 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]08 Dec 2016: A.16. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=A+Lawyer+for+a+Lawless+EPA&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=009 12-08&volume=&issue=&spage=A.16&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Think of the Clean Power Plan to put the coal industry out of business, the carbon endangerment rule, grabbing authority to call any pond or puddle a "waterway," and so much more. 

Full Text 
As Donald Trump rolls out his domestic-policy nominees, Democrats are discovering to their horror that more often than not he meant what he said. The latest evidence is the President-elect's intention to nominate Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt to run the Environmental Protection Agency. 
There was a time when Republican EPA administrators were liberals in GOP power suits. Think William Reilly under George H.W. Bush or Christine Todd Whitman under George 
W. Bush. They more or less agreed with the left's command-and-control model of environmental regulation, and they'd pile more costs on the private economy. 
The Democratic Party's green extremism, especially on climate change, has made such Republicans obsolete. President Obama couldn't get his climate-change agenda through a Democratic Congress, so he ordered the EPA to impose it on the 50 states by diktat. The agency reinterpreted statute after ancient statute as its bureaucrats saw fit, daring the courts to stop them. Think of the Clean Power Plan to put the coal industry out of business, the carbon endangerment rule, grabbing authority to call any pond or puddle a "waterway," and so much more. 
Mr. Pruitt's first job will be restoring respect for the Constitution and cooperative federalism in EPA rule-making. He knows how to do this because he led the legal charge by the states against EPA abuses, including the victory of a Supreme Court stay on the Clean Power Plan as it moves through the appellate courts. If he is confirmed by the Senate, Mr. Pruitt could order the EPA's lawyers to inform the courts that the agency no longer stands by the legal interpretation behind the Clean Power Plan. 
Democrats will attack Mr. Pruitt as a climate-change "denier," but his only offense is disagreeing with them on energy policy. The irony is that Mr. Pruitt will probably do more for the environment than Mr. Obama ever did because he will make sure that rules issued by the EPA are rooted in law and thus won't be overturned in court. 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Climate change; 
Environmental policy; 
Energy policy; 
Federal regulation; 
Nominations; 
Editorials 


People 	Trump, Donald J; Pruitt, Scott 
Company / organization 	Name: Republican Party 

NAICS: 813940; 

Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA NAICS: 924110 
Title  A Lawyer for a Lawless EPA  
Author  Anonymous  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.16  

Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Dec 8, 2016  
column  REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  1846607121  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1846607121?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2019-01-02  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 109 of 376 


U.S. News: Trump Meets With Gore On Climate 
Bender, Michael C; Harder, Amy.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]06 Dec 2016: A.4. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+Trump+Meets+With+Gore+On+Climate&title=Wall+St 12-06&volume=&issue=&spage=A.4&au=Bender%2C+Michael+C%3BHarder%2C+Amy&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
President-elect Donald Trump's children are urging him to seize on environmental conservation as a potentially defining issue for his administration, according to two people familiar with the discussions, an effort that could clash with Mr. Trump's aim of boosting energy production from fossil fuels and his opposition to many federal regulations. 

Full Text 
President-elect Donald Trump's children are urging him to seize on environmental conservation as a potentially defining issue for his administration, according to two people familiar with the discussions, an effort that could clash with Mr. Trump's aim of boosting energy production from fossil fuels and his opposition to many federal regulations. 
The familial push prompted a meeting Monday in New York between Mr. Trump and former Vice President Al Gore, an outspoken climate advocate who has promoted energy efficiency and warned of the consequences of global warming. 
Mr. Trump's daughter, Ivanka Trump, also met with Mr. Gore in Trump Tower. Ms. Trump, who sought the meeting with the former vice president, has been a moderating influence on her father's blunt brand of conservatism. Senior aides have said she is one of the few people in his circle able to persuade the president-elect to change a position without upsetting him. 
Mr. Trump's position on environmental issues may not be entirely fleshed out. But he has left little doubt of his desire to boost the coal industry, cut regulations and take other actions that worry environmentalists. 
Mr. Trump's eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., said during the campaign his father would "keep public lands public and accessible" while also pushing to develop resources. 
Mr. Gore has said electing Mr. Trump could lead to a "climate catastrophe." But while Mr. Trump's transition has reflected the value he places on loyalty, he has also shown a taste for meetings with former rivals and critics. Asked about the Gore meeting, Trump senior adviser Kellyanne Conway said:"There's a very small group of people in this country who've been president or vice president," and Mr. Gore is one of the few "folks who breathe that rarefied air." 
Mr. Gore described the meeting as "very productive." 
Credit: By Michael C. Bender and Amy Harder 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details 
Subject Environmental protection 
People Trump, Donald J; Gore, Albert Jr 
Title U.S. News: Trump Meets With Gore On Climate 
Author Bender, Michael C; Harder, Amy 
Publication title Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages A.4 
Publication year 2016 
Publication date Dec 6, 2016 
Publisher Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1845923289  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1845923289?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 110 of 376 


Business News: Smithfield Targets Carbon --- Pork producer aims to cut costs, boost its brand with voluntary move to trim emissions 
Bunge, Jacob.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]05 Dec 2016: B.5. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Business+News%3A+Smithfield+Targets+Carbon+--­+Pork+producer+aims+to+cut+costs%2C+boost+its+brand+with+voluntary+move+to+trim+emissions&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2016-12­05&volume=&issue=&spage=B.5&au=Bunge%2C+Jacob&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Smithfield estimates it emits about 17 million metric tons of carbon dioxide annually, nearly as much as five coal-fired power plants. 

Full Text 
Pork giant Smithfield Foods Inc. plans to cut one-quarter of its carbon emissions over eight years, a voluntary move the company hopes will trim costs and burnish its brand. 
Virginia-based Smithfield will scale back applications of fertilizer used to grow grain for pig feed and install systems to extract natural gas from manure, among other measures. The Environmental Defense Fund, which worked with Smithfield on the plan, said it is the most ambitious commitment yet by a U.S. meatpacker to curtail greenhouse-gas emissions. 
Smithfield Chief Executive Ken Sullivan, a company veteran who took the helm last January, also sees a business case for emitting less. He expects more energy-efficient operations to save money and boost Smithfield's standing in restaurants and grocery stores. Two-thirds of U.S. consumers will pay more for a product marketed as sustainable, says research firm Nielsen. 
"Everyone is more sensitive to these issues these days, including our customers," said Mr. Sullivan, who estimated Smithfield has already invested tens of millions of dollars in environmental efforts. 
President-elect Donald Trump has pledged to roll back environmental regulations he says put U.S. businesses at a disadvantage. But Mr. Sullivan said Smithfield's emissions plan is "apolitical" and not a response to any regulatory pressure. Rather, it is based on business and the belief it is the "right thing," he said. 
WH Group Ltd., the China-based pork supplier that acquired Smithfield in 2013 for $4.7 billion, supports the move. "If you're going to be the world's largest pork company, you ought to be a leader," Mr. Sullivan said. 
The $198 billion U.S. meatpacking industry over the years has been criticized for a range of practices, including its treatment of animals, the use of drugs such as antibiotics and for polluting water sources with waste. Environmental groups also have castigated the sector for its outsize contribution to climate change. The massive farms that each year supply 93 billion pounds of steak, ham and chicken to restaurants and retailers contribute the largest portion of the 36% of U.S. emissions that the White House says arise from agriculture. 
Smithfield estimates it emits about 17 million metric tons of carbon dioxide annually, nearly as much as five coal-fired power plants. The company was long vilified as a top polluter. In 2001, former CEO and Chairman 
Joseph W. Luter III derided Smithfield's critics as whiny. 
But just a year later, Smithfield hired Dennis Treacy, a former director of Virginia's Department of Environmental Quality, to help make the company more environmentally friendly. Mr. Treacy had sued Smithfield in the 1990s for wastewater violations. 
Mr. Treacy and Kraig Westerbeek, head of Smithfield's environment and support operations, in 2013 met with the Environmental Defense Fund to draft plans for farmers to reduce fertilizer runoff. 
The company hired University of Minnesota researchers to quantify carbon emissions across Smithfield's operations. Hog manure contributed the most, as much as 35% of the total. Grain production and processing contributed roughly an additional quarter, while cooking and refrigeration by customers represent as much as another 25%. Transport, slaughtering and power for Smithfield's plants and buildings make up the remainder. 
To cut the total by one-fourth, Smithfield has hired agronomists and purchased sensors to help farmers avoid applying too much fertilizer. Some truck routes will be redrawn to cut driving distances. 
Credit: By Jacob Bunge 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Emissions; 

Carbon; 

Industrial plant emissions;  
Meat processing  
Location  United States--US  
Company / organization  Name: WH Group Ltd  
NAICS: 311611, 311612;  
Name: Smithfield Foods Inc  
NAICS: 311611, 311612  
Title  Business News: Smithfield Targets Carbon --- Pork producer aims to cut costs, boost its brand  
with voluntary move to trim emissions  
Author  Bunge, Jacob  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.5  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Dec 5, 2016  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1845684429  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1845684429?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 111 of 376 


Trump's Charm of Not Being Obama 
Jenkins, Holman W, Jr.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]03 Dec 2016: A.11. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Trump%27s+Charm+of+Not+Being+Obama&title=Wall+Street+Jour 12-03&volume=&issue=&spage=A.11&au=Jenkins%2C+Holman+W%2C+Jr&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The plant, known as Shell Appalachia, will generate 6,000 construction jobs for several years, plus 600 full-time plant jobs, plus thousands more jobs indirectly for companies that make plastics, steel pipe, sound proofing for gas compressors, pickup trucks, housing etc., etc.\n 

Full Text 
Barack Obama will retire a president personally popular with the American people yet who served them (and himself, and his party) badly. 
He fretted in 2012 that he would lose the election just in time for Mitt Romney to get credit for an Obama recovery. That long-delayed recovery is finally coming in the last 
months of administration -- the economy finally broke 3% growth in the third quarter -- and now Mr. Trump will get the credit. 
He may even deserve a bit, witness the outbreak of Trumpian optimism in the stock market and small-business hiring plans. 
Mr. Obama came in saying fossil fuels were running out and prices were destined to rise, and instead got the fracking revolution, whose related employment boost was arguably 

a factor in his re-election victories in Pennsylvania and Ohio. Yet he couldn't stop looking this gift horse in the mouth. 

Unshrewdly, in the name of satisfying his climate-change constituents, he needlessly launched a regulatory war against coal as cheap natural gas was already doing the job for 
him. Result: Democrats became the enemy in coal country. 
He pandered to his green friends on the Keystone XL pipeline. Result: Mr. Trump is inheriting a rebound in natural gas fracking and an associated infrastructure boom that is just 

now heating up again in time for an incoming administration to get credit. 

Natural gas fracking (far more than Trumpian trade policy or browbeating of companies like Carrier) is the force reawakening manufacturing opportunity in the Rust Belt, timed 
perfectly for Mr. Trump's arrival. 
Holding back development was not the depressed gas price -- that's what attracts manufacturers -- but the lack of infrastructure, specifically pipelines, to get the gas to 

prospective plant sites. Blame Mr. Obama and his Keystone theatrics. 

A Brazilian company, Braskem, just opted to build a $500 million plastics plant in Texas, not Philadelphia -- home to 85% Obama voters -- for one reason only: lack of pipeline 
infrastructure. 
Mr. Obama, note, pays this price for climate gestures that were purely symbolic, having no impact on climate, and especially purblind given gas's role in reducing U.S. CO2 

emissions. 
His gestures were destined not to survive his presidency in any case. All he did was shoot himself, his party and American workers in the foot. 
Mr. Obama paid lip service to tax reform, the giant dividend from which will now be collected, yes, by Mr. Trump. 
His Iran deal was supposed to reveal Mr. Obama as a bold, creative, unblinkered foreign-policy innovator. For better or worse, Mr. Trump is already on a path to revise America's 

relations with the world in far more daring fashion. 
One dividend may already be coming in, judging by Saudi Arabia's surprise decision this week to wave the white flag in its price war against fracking. America is no longer a 

country that benefits from low oil prices. All the indicators are turning up: rig count, "frac sand" prices, the share prices of domestic energy pioneers like Chesapeake and 
Oneok. 
A Rust Belt renaissance that might have recaptured for Democrats the lost love of the American worker will become a halo for Team Trump instead. Shell is going ahead with a 

$6 billion petrochemical plant on the site of an old zinc smelter on the Ohio River in hard-hit Appalachia. 

The plant, known as Shell Appalachia, will generate 6,000 construction jobs for several years, plus 600 full-time plant jobs, plus thousands more jobs indirectly for companies 
that make plastics, steel pipe, sound proofing for gas compressors, pickup trucks, housing etc., etc. 
A Thai company is eyeing a second giant ethylene plant nearby in eastern Ohio. Guess who will get credit for lifting the fortunes of a region presidents have been promising to 

help since Kennedy? 
Mr. Obama was too blinded by his shibboleths, his own brand of political correctness, to let good things happen in a way that would let him take credit for them. 
He failed to lean in favor of things that were working -- like fracking, like corporate America's steady effort to encourage more consumer involvement in disciplining health-care 

costs, which ObamaCare might have borrowed from. 
Mr. Trump can still screw things up. His trade-war talk, his eagerness to meddle in plant-siting decisions, could be poisonous to a gas-fueled manufacturing boom conspicuously 
linked to the world. 

Fully 60% of the $170 billion in planned petrochemical investments tied to fracking now in the works are funded by overseas investors. These investors come because they think of America as a lawful, trustworthy place to do business. 
But Mr. Trump, our new dealmaker-in-chief, also has a pragmatic streak as big as Manhattan's Trump Tower. He will make mistakes but here's betting they won't be Mr. Obama's mistakes of smug obliviousness. 
Credit: By Holman W. Jenkins, Jr. 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Natural gas; 
Infrastructure; 

Steel pipes; 

Energy industry; 

Employment; 

Job creation 


People 	Trump, Donald J; Obama, Barack 
Title 	Trump's Charm of Not Being Obama 
Author 	Jenkins, Holman W, Jr 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.11 
Publication year 	2016 
Publication date 	Dec 3, 2016 
column 	Business World 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 	00999660 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	Commentary 
ProQuest document ID 	1845367445 
Document URL 	https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1845367445?accountid=14902 
Copyright 	(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further 
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Last updated 	2017-11-23 
Database 	US Newsstream 
document 112 of 376 


Business News: Canada Issues a Split Decision on Pipelines 
Vieira, Paul; Dawson, Chester.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]30 Nov 2016: B.3. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Business+News%3A+Canada+Issues+a+Split+Decision+on+Pipelines& 11-30&volume=&issue=&spage=B.3&au=Vieira%2C+Paul%3BDawson%2C+Chester&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau turned down a proposed Enbridge Inc. pipeline to the West Coast that had become a flashpoint for protesters, while approving a less controversial expansion of a Kinder Morgan Inc. corridor that will boost oil-sands producers' access to export markets. 

Full Text 
Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau turned down a proposed Enbridge Inc. pipeline to the West Coast that had become a flashpoint for protesters, while approving a less 
controversial expansion of a Kinder Morgan Inc. corridor that will boost oil-sands producers' access to export markets. 
Mr. Trudeau rejected Enbridge's yearslong attempt to build the Northern Gateway pipeline, which would have carried 525,000 barrels a day of crude oil along 730 miles to the 
port at Kitimat, British Columbia. 

The project was widely supported by Canadian oil-sands producers, whose only significant export market is the U.S., but it faced the kind of fierce opposition from aboriginal 

and environmental groups that has mounted across North America in recent years. 
The prime minister approved Kinder Morgan's proposed expansion of its Trans Mountain pipeline, which will nearly triple the capacity of an existing pipeline to 890,000 barrels of 
crude a day at a cost of 5.5 billion Canadian dollars ($4.1 billion). 

The project would increase Canadian crude exports to Asia and reduce its dependence on the U.S. market, where Canada's oil sells for a substantial discount to global prices. 
Kinder plans to increase shiploads of crude oil to foreign markets, including China, to 34 ships a month from five now. 
The pipeline decisions point to a careful balancing act on energy by the Trudeau government, which has announced plans for a nationwide carbon tax that could make it a leader 

in the global battle against climate change and has pledged to phase out coal-fired power. 

But Canada's economy remains dependent on natural resources, and while Mr. Trudeau repeated his commitment to fighting climate change Tuesday, he said that making a 
transition away from a fossil-fuel economy won't happen overnight. 
The prime minister said Canada needs to work on that transition, while still seeking to tap new markets for its energy exports. 
"There isn't a country in the world that would find billions of barrels of oil and just leave it in the ground while there is a market for it," Mr. Trudeau said at a press conference. 
A cap on greenhouse-gas emissions announced by the province of Alberta will place some limits on oil-sands development, he said, and the pipelines won't change that. 
The government approved Enbridge's proposed Line 3 project, which aims to replace segments of an existing pipeline connecting Hardisty, Alberta, to Wisconsin. The project has 

a price tag of C$7.5 billion. 
Enbridge and Kinder Morgan weren't immediately available for comment. 
Credit: By Paul Vieira and Chester Dawson 

(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Pipelines; 
Oil sands 


Location 	Canada 
People 	Trudeau, Justin 
Company / organization 	Name: Kinder Morgan Inc 

NAICS: 486910, 324110, 211111, 221210; 


Name: Enbridge Inc  
NAICS: 486110  
Title  Business News: Canada Issues a Split Decision on Pipelines  
Author  Vieira, Paul; Dawson, Chester  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.3  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Nov 30, 2016  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1844544531  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1844544531?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 113 of 376 


World News: Canada Aims to End Coal Power 
Vieira, Paul; McKinnon, Judy.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]22 Nov 2016: A.7. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=World+News%3A+Canada+Aims+to+End+Coal+Power&title=Wall+Stre 11-22&volume=&issue=&spage=A.7&au=Vieira%2C+Paul%3BMcKinnon%2C+Judy&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Ms. McKenna, just back from a United Nations-sponsored climate-change conference in Morocco, said coal power in Canada currently represents close to 10% of greenhouse-gas emissions coming from four provinces -­

Full Text 
Canada plans to completely phase out traditional coal power by 2030 and will work with the country's four remaining provinces that still burn the fossil fuel to reach the overall 
goal, Environment Minister Catherine McKenna said on Monday. 
The move is the latest measure Canada is taking to meet greenhouse-gas reduction targets by 2030, and follows the introduction of a nationwide carbon levy that starts in 
2018. 

The new plan also comes amid a pledge by President-elect Donald Trump to revive the U.S. coal industry's fortunes. 
Ms. McKenna, just back from a United Nations-sponsored climate-change conference in Morocco, said coal power in Canada currently represents close to 10% of greenhouse-

gas emissions coming from four provinces -- Alberta, Saskatchewan, Nova Scotia and New Brunswick. Provinces will have the option to choose between phasing out coal entirely and replacing it with lower-emitting resources, or using carbon capture and storage technology, the minister said. Data indicate the Western province of Alberta is by far the biggest user of coal as a source of electricity generation, and is home to five of the six biggest coal-fueled power 
plants in Canada. The province's left-leaning government has signaled its intent to phase out coal-fired generation, also by 2030. 
Canada's largest province, Ontario, phased out coal-fired electricity in 2014. 
Brad Wall, premier of the resource-rich province of Saskatchewan, said his government would review the economic and environmental implications from Ottawa's 

announcement. Coal accounts for half of the electricity generation in the province. 

Mr. Wall has been the most vocal opponent of the government's carbon-price plan. He said Ottawa's move to unilaterally phase out coal generation exposes a "disingenuous 
commitment" to work with the country's regions -- especially those that rely on commodities to drive growth -- on a national climate-change strategy. 
Canada is the world's 12th-largest coal producer, according to government data, and roughly three-quarters of the coal it imports originates in the U.S. 
Ms. McKenna said 80% of Canada's electricity comes from non-carbon emitting sources, and the goal is to increase that to 90% by 2030 by amending existing regulations to 

phase out coal. The minister said the move is consistent with other countries that have accelerated their plans to phase out coal. 
Canada's Liberal government has pledged to cut greenhouse-gas emissions by at least 30% from 2005 levels before 2030. 
Ms. McKenna said the latest actions will reduce Canada's greenhouse-gas emissions by more than 5 megatons by 2030, or the equivalent of taking 1.3 million cars off the road. 
Credit: By Paul Vieira and Judy McKinnon 

(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Carbon; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Coal industry; 

Greenhouse effect; 
Environmental policy 


Location 	Canada 
People 	McKenna, Catherine 
Title 	World News: Canada Aims to End Coal Power 
Author  Vieira, Paul; McKinnon, Judy  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.7  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Nov 22, 2016  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1841959225  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1841959225?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 114 of 376 


Green Elites, Trumped 
Jenkins, Holman W, Jr.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]16 Nov 2016: A.19. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Green+Elites%2C+Trumped&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=009996 11-16&volume=&issue=&spage=A.19&au=Jenkins%2C+Holman+W%2C+Jr&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
[...]the climate will be the last indicator to notice any transition from Barack Obama to Donald Trump. Honest warriors like Mr. Gates and retired NASA alarmist James Hansen insist real progress can't be made without nuclear. Because the Tom Steyers and Bill McKibbens would sacrifice the planet 10 times over rather than no longer be fawned over at green confabs. 

Full Text 
Hysterical, in both senses of the word, is the reaction of greens like Paul Krugman and the Sierra Club to last week's election. "The planet is in danger," fretted Tom Steyer, the 
California hedge funder who spends his billions trying to be popular with green voters. 
Uh huh. In fact, the climate will be the last indicator to notice any transition from Barack Obama to Donald Trump. That's because -- as climate warriors were only too happy to 
point out until a week ago -- Mr. Obama's own commitments weren't going to make any noticeable dent in a putative CO2 problem. 

At most, Mr. Trump's election will mean solar and wind have to compete more on their merits. So what? 
He wants to lift the Obama war on coal -- but he won't stop the epochal replacement of coal by cheap natural gas, with half the greenhouse emissions per BTU. 
He probably won't even try to repeal an egregious taxpayer-funded rebate for wind and solar projects, because red states like this gimme too. But Republican state 

governments will continue to wind back subsidies that ordinary ratepayers pay through their electric bills so upscale homeowners can indulge themselves with solar. 
Even so, the price of solar technology will continue to drop; the lithium-ion revolution will continue to drive efficiency gains in batteries. 
Mr. Trump wants to spend on infrastructure, and the federal research establishment, a hotbed of battery enthusiasts, likely will benefit. 
In a deregulatory mood, he might well pick up an uncharacteristically useful initiative from the Obama administration. The Nuclear Regulatory Commission quietly is revisiting a 

scientifically dubious radiation risk standard that drives up the cost of nuclear power. 
What a Trump election will do is mostly dismantle a green gravy train powered by moral vanity that contributes nothing to the public welfare. 
A phenomenon like Trump, whatever its antecedents, is an opportunity -- in this case to purge a rottenness that begins at the commanding heights. The New York Times last 

year published a feature entitled "short answers to the hard questions about climate change" that was notable solely for ignoring the hardest question of all: How much are 

human activities actually affecting the climate? 
This is the hardest question. It's why we spend tens of billions collecting climate data and building computerized climate models. It's why "climate sensitivity" remains the 
central problem of climate science, as lively and unresolved as it was 35 years ago. 

Happily, it only takes a crude, blunderbussy kind of instrument to shatter such a fragile smugness -- and if Mr. Trump and the phenomenon he represents are anything, it's crude and blunderbussy. 
As with any such shattering, the dividends will not be appropriated only by one party or political tendency. 
Democrats must know by now they are in a failing marriage. Wealthy investors like George Soros, Nat Simons and Mr. Steyer, who finance the party's green agenda, have 
ridden the Dems into the ground, with nothing to show for their millions, and vice versa. 

On the contrary, the WikiLeaks release of Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta's emails only dramatizes what a liability they've become, demanding attacks on scientists and even loyal Democrats who don't endorse their climate-disaster scenarios. Their anti-coal, anti-pipeline, anti-fracking stance especially hurts Dems with union households, which turned out in record numbers for Mr. Trump. 
It was always crazy to believe in an unprecedented act of global central planning to wean nations away from fossil fuels, but equally idiotic not to notice that our energy 
economy is ripe slowly to be transformed by technology anyway. 
One greenie who is beyond the need for handouts is Bill Gates, who has made himself non grata by saying the current vogue for subsidizing power sources that will always need 
subsidies is a joke -- an admission of defeat. 

Honest warriors like Mr. Gates and retired NASA alarmist James Hansen insist real progress can't be made without nuclear. Why haven't others? Because the Tom Steyers and 

Bill McKibbens would sacrifice the planet 10 times over rather than no longer be fawned over at green confabs. That's rottenness at work. 
There's a reason today's climate movement increasingly devotes its time and energy to persecuting heretics -- because it's the most efficient way to suppress reasoned 
examination of policies that cost taxpayers billions without producing any public benefit whatsoever. 

The theory and practice of climate advocacy, on one hand, has been thoroughly, irretrievably corrupted by self righteousness -- blame Al Gore, that was his modus. Yet, on the other, it has allowed itself to become the agent of economic interests that can't survive without pillaging middle-class taxpayers and energy users -- exactly the kind of elitist cronyism that voters are sick of. 
Without attributing any special virtue to Mr. Trump, he represents a chance for a new start. He might even turn out to be good for the planet. 
Credit: By Holman W. Jenkins, Jr. 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Climate change; 
Coal; 
Environmental policy 


People 	Trump, Donald J 
Title 	Green Elites, Trumped 
Author 	Jenkins, Holman W, Jr 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.19 
Publication year 	2016 
Publication date 	Nov 16, 2016 
column 	Business World 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 	00999660 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	Commentary 
ProQuest document ID 	1839479574 
Document URL 	https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1839479574?accountid=14902 
Copyright 	(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further 
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Last updated 	2017-11-24 
Database 	US Newsstream 
document 115 of 376 


Election Sparks Gas Worry --- Fear grows that Trump's trade stand could hurt flow of fuel to Mexico, pressuring prices 
Dezember, Ryan; Whelan, Robbie.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]15 Nov 2016: B.18. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Election+Sparks+Gas+Worry+--­+Fear+grows+that+Trump%27s+trade+stand+could+hurt+flow+of+fuel+to+Mexico%2C+pressuring+prices&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2016-11­15&volume=&issue=&spage=B.18&au=Dezember%2C+Ryan%3BWhelan%2C+Robbie&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Domestic demand has risen as U.S. power producers switched from coal to cleaner-burning natural gas -- in part to comply with environmental regulations -- and the first shipments of liquefied natural gas were shipped overseas from a new Gulf Coast terminal this year. 

Full text 
Donald Trump's presidency is widely viewed as a boon for the U.S. energy industry, but some of his planned policies could pose problems for the natural-gas business. 
Mr. Trump has won plaudits from energy executives for saying he would peel back government regulations on oil companies, oppose global efforts to curb climate change and 
review a recent agreement that lifted sanctions on Iran, a major oil exporter. 
Yet some of his other proposals could be detrimental to natural gas. He has pledged to tear up trade pacts and wall off Mexico, which could hurt the flow of U.S. natural gas to 

its southern neighbor. Mexico has become an increasingly important outlet for the fuel that has helped buoy domestic prices amid a glut of shale gas, analysts say. 

"Mexico has been one of the few bright stories for prices and demand," said Nicholas Potter, an analyst at Barclays PLC, which warned clients on Election Day that Mr. Trump's 
"trade policies would likely curb or at least limit incremental U.S. gas exports to Mexico." 
A reduction in sales to Mexico could worsen the gas glut and weigh on prices. It also could penalize the companies building pipelines to Mexico and the drillers, primarily in 

Texas, shipping their gas across the border. 

Mr. Trump also has proposed rolling back regulations on the coal industry that he has said have cost mining jobs. Analysts say that doing so could help coal retake market share 
from natural gas at U.S. power plants. 
Mr. Trump's representatives didn't respond to requests for comment. 
Shipments to Mexico reached an all-time high in August and accounted for almost 6% of total U.S. gas production, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration. 

These exports have risen drastically in recent years as U.S. prices have plummeted on abundant supplies of shale gas and because of new pipelines that have been built across 

the border. 
This summer, Mexico's imports of U.S. gas for the first time eclipsed its domestic production, which has declined more than 25% since 2010, according to Platts Analytics, a unit 
of S&P Global Platts. 

Meanwhile, demand for natural gas in Mexico has risen roughly 20% since the beginning of the decade as power plants have switched from burning more expensive fuel oil and 
the country has tried to decrease pricey deliveries of gas from overseas, says Platts, which expects demand to continue to rise. 
"Barring some kind of bizarre trade war, it's one of the more certain areas for natural-gas demand growth," said Ross Wyeno, a Platts analyst. 

U.S. gas prices have been under pressure in recent years as energy explorers used new drilling techniques to unleash a market-swamping glut of the heating and power-generation fuel. 
On Monday, U.S. natural-gas futures for December delivery rose 13 cents, or 5%, to $2.7490 a million British thermal units, and prices are down 9.15% in the month to date. Domestic demand has risen as U.S. power producers switched from coal to cleaner-burning natural gas -- in part to comply with environmental regulations -- and the first shipments of liquefied natural gas were shipped overseas from a new Gulf Coast terminal this year. 
But analysts say the market would be badly unbalanced without exports to Mexico. 
Brandon Blossman, an analyst with Houston investment bank Tudor, Pickering, Holt & Co., estimated that an immediate cessation of exports to Mexico would cut about 75 cents per million British thermal unit from U.S. prices, or about 30% of the current price. An all-out and immediate halt is highly unlikely. But Mr. Blossman's calculation shows the importance of the Mexican market to U.S. energy producers that already are struggling 
to produce gas economically.The number of rigs drilling for gas in the U.S. has fallen to 115 from about 900 five years ago, according to Baker Hughes Inc. 
Analyst say drillers in Texas would feel the most pain if exports were interrupted. 
Credit: By Ryan Dezember and Robbie Whelan 


(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. Database US Newsstream 
Details  
Subject  Natural gas;  
Energy industry  
Location  United States--US; Mexico  
People  Trump, Donald J  
Title  Election Sparks Gas Worry --- Fear grows that Trump's trade stand could hurt flow of fuel to  
Mexico, pressuring prices  
Author  Dezember, Ryan; Whelan, Robbie  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.18  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Nov 15, 2016  
column  Commodities  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1838935607  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1838935607?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  

document 116 of 376 


Big Issues in Energy (A Special Report) --- The Experts: Insights on Climate Change and Carbon Pricing 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]14 Nov 2016: R.8. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Big+Issues+in+Energy+%28A+Special+Report%29+--­+The+Experts%3A+Insights+on+Climate+Change+and+Carbon+Pricing&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2016-11­14&volume=&issue=&spage=R.8&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
If we use the federal government's estimate of the combined social cost of carbon pollution and apply it to the typical U.S. household's electricity consumption on today's national grid mix, the average household faces damages of almost $20 per month. [...]carbon-pricing enthusiasts may be overexcited about the power of prices to ameliorate the nation's carbon problem. 

Full Text 
The Experts are an online group of industry and thought leaders who write about leading topics of interest in their fields. For more, go to WSJ.com/Experts. 
Few Will Pay for Climate-Change Fight 
A wide range of polls point to a clear and growing trend: Americans of all political stripes are increasingly worried about climate change. 
But what are Americans actually willing to pay to do something about it? 
This is what researchers from the Energy Policy Institute at the University of Chicago and the Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research at the University of Chicago set out to better understand. Their nationally representative poll found that 43% of Americans were unwilling to pay an additional $1 a month in their electricity bill to combat climate change-and a large majority were unwilling to pay $10 per month. That's despite the fact that 77% said they think climate change is happening and 65% think it is a problem the government should do something about. Support plummets as the amount of the fee increases. 
This is an upside-down result. The best available science tells us that Americans should be willing to pay considerably more, because the damages from climate change are so great-including to them personally. If we use the federal government's estimate of the combined social cost of carbon pollution and apply it to the typical U.S. household's electricity consumption on today's national grid mix, the average household faces damages of almost $20 per month. Yet just 29% of respondents said they would be willing to pay at least that much. 
The reality may be that while most Americans see climate change as a collective threat, they don't see it as a threat to them personally. This suggests that despite the massive flooding, long droughts and extreme weather that scientists have linked to a changing climate, many Americans are still not associating their personal damages from these events with climate change. This is potentially bad news for climate policy. After all, if 43% of Americans are unwilling to pay even $1 to solve a $20 problem, the policy landscape is likely to be challenging. 
-- Sam Ori, executive director, Energy Policy Institute at the University of Chicago 
Carbon Price Alone Isn't the Answer 
Carbon pricing is trending. The year has seen a notable uptick of buzz about the virtues of a carbon tax to ease our climate-change woes. The constant refrain: By putting a price on pollution to reflect its costs, government can ensure markets will efficiently adjust and naturally limit emissions. And yet there is a problem here. To the extent that pricing carbon has emerged as the ideal of climate policy, it has also been idealized in ways that may be diverting attention from other needed actions. 
A ton of evidence suggests that no enacted carbon price will make a big enough dent by itself in U.S. emissions to resolve the emissions problem. MIT scholars Jesse Jenkins and Valerie Karplus have shown that the "binding constraints" of politics keep legislated carbon prices low. They document that only a few of the world's 22 jurisdictions with carbon taxes have pegged them anywhere near the true "social cost of carbon" at which point climate damages are fully "priced in." In short, carbon-pricing enthusiasts may be overexcited about the power of prices to ameliorate the nation's carbon problem. 
Carbon prices should be treated as just one useful tool among many. Indeed, there is another side of the carbon-price equation that no one should forget: the enormous flows of revenue that will result from even a modest carbon tax. 
Those revenue yields are critical to carbon pricing. Not only can the revenue help ameliorate the ugly politics of imposing a new tax by offsetting some of the burdens a tax would place on consumers, producers and communities, but the money also would be available to support further efforts to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions and ameliorate climate change. 
My favorite use of, say, $30 billion a year of any future U.S. carbon tax revenue: clean-energy R&D and technology development. 
-- Mark Muro, senior fellow, Brookings Institution Three Things States Should Do Now 
Despite the absence of federal regulatory certainty, the power sector is moving inexorably toward reduced carbon emissions. But how do electricity planners, who work on 20­to 40-year time horizons, engage in long-term planning in the middle of an energy revolution? How can we chart a path forward that simultaneously reduces our carbon footprint and provides market certainty for power producers? 
There are three actions every state should be taking right now to provide market certainty in a carbon-constrained future. 
First, states have the opportunity to align their renewable-energy policies in a way that fully captures federal wind and solar tax credits to save their citizens millions of dollars. In some cases, this could mean extending renewable-energy portfolio standards that have expired, or will expire, before 2022. 
Second, energy efficiency is the lowest-cost resource across the board, yet only 29 states have an efficiency standard for electric and gas utilities. Among the states that do, many could nearly double the savings they are already achieving. 
Third, as a former governor, I suspect every state would prefer to design and implement their own emissions policy over having one designed for them by the federal government. States can establish emissions standards that chart their own course to a low-carbon future-one that takes advantage of their individual technology challenges and opportunities. 
States that act quickly will not only reduce their energy portfolio risk, they will save their ratepayers a lot of money. 
Bill Ritter Jr., former governor of Colorado, director of the Center for the New Energy Economy at Colorado State University 
How China Wastes Its Renewable Energy 
Last year, China submitted its plan for bringing down carbon emissions as part of the U.N. process to address global climate change. Its plan calls for peaking carbon emissions by 2030 or sooner; lowering the overall carbon intensity of China's GDP; and increasing low-carbon energy sources to about 20% of the total energy mix. 
Key to achieving these goals is China's plan to dramatically scale up renewable energy from wind, solar, geothermal and other low- or no-carbon sources. China is already the largest renewable-energy investor in the world, contributing about $102 billion, or 36% of total global investment, to these projects in 2015. (By comparison, the U.S. invested about $44 billion in the same period.) China is not just putting up the money, it's putting up the projects, with over 45 gigawatts of new solar and wind capacity developed in 2015. 
But China is also the leader in the percentage of that energy that never reaches consumers. China's wasted, or "curtailed," wind energy averages about 21% nationally, reaching as high as 40% in some provinces. 
Why is China wasting so much of its renewable energy? A few years ago, the answer may have focused on "ghost projects"-big wind and solar farms with no connections to the grid. Those connectivity problems still exist. But in fact a bigger problem today is renewable power that is physically connected to the grid, but not transmitted to meet actual energy demand. 
This is part of a larger power-sector-management issue in China. In particular, China faces issues in three important grid-management areas: power-sector planning, market design and energy pricing. As a result, although renewable power plants are built, the power they generate is often wasted because it cannot be transmitted to demand centers, cannot be used at the right time, or is perceived to be too expensive. 
Chinese leadership must build a power system that is smarter, more flexible and less prone to prioritizing cheap coal over lower-carbon energy sources. Otherwise, China's promise to the world may never become reality. 
-- Kate Gordon, vice chair, and Anders Hove, associate research director, Paulson Institute 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Carbon; 
Series & special reports; 
Climate change; 
Energy policy 


Location 	United States--US 
Title 	Big Issues in Energy (A Special Report) --- The Experts: Insights on Climate Change and 
Carbon Pricing 

Author 	Anonymous 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	R.8 
Publication year 	2016 
Publication date 	Nov 14, 2016 
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1838664920  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1838664920?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-24  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 117 of 376 


Big Issues in Energy (A Special Report) --- Is Nuclear Power Vital to Hitting Emissions Targets? 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]14 Nov 2016: R.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Big+Issues+in+Energy+%28A+Special+Report%29+--­+Is+Nuclear+Power+Vital+to+Hitting+Emissions+Targets%3F&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2016-11­14&volume=&issue=&spage=R.1&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
With all that, some experts say nuclear plants are the best way to transition to a low-carbon future until the price of renewable energy drops further. Nuclear plants' output helps to keep electricity prices lower than they would otherwise be, and premature loss of safely operating nuclear plants would leave the nation's electric-resource mix much less diverse, with much higher costs and much higher carbon emissions. 

Full text 
Nuclear power is fizzling. 
In recent years, many countries have largely stopped building new nuclear plants and are looking elsewhere for power. In the wake of the Fukushima disaster in 2011, Japan shut down all its nuclear reactors, though a few have restarted since last year. Germany also moved to phase out nuclear power by 2022. (China is a notable exception, with 20 reactors under construction.) 
Market conditions heavily favor cheaper fuels such as natural gas over nuclear. And the regulatory climate favors other sources of energy. In the U.S., the Obama administration introduced rules requiring power plants to cut CO2 emissions 32% from 2005 levels by 2030, though President-elect Donald Trump says he will drop that rule. While nuclear plants don't generate CO2, companies can tap federal tax credits for investing in renewables. What's more, power companies can sell renewable electricity at higher prices because utilities need wind and solar supply to comply with state rules. 
Meanwhile, fears about catastrophic nuclear accidents and unresolved questions about waste storage linger. 
With all that, some experts say nuclear plants are the best way to transition to a low-carbon future until the price of renewable energy drops further. But others say the plants are too risky and costly to keep in operation. 
YES: 
Renewables Can't 
Fill the Gap Yet 
By Susan Tierney 
I'm all for making smart investments in energy efficiency and renewable energy. We should be aiming to reduce carbon emissions and limit the worst effects of climate change. 
At the same time, we need to keep electricity affordable and accessible to regular folks and sophisticated energy managers alike. That means nuclear power is an essential piece of the equation, at least for now. We need to retain the carbon-free power produced at existing nuclear plants for as long as they can safely operate. 
In the near term, existing nuclear plants are vital to hitting our carbon-reduction targets. We need them to help transition the power system to a lower-carbon profile. And getting it right economically is essential to many people's willingness to pull carbon out of the system. 
Consider: Today's nuclear plants provide one-fifth of our power but nearly two-thirds of carbon-free electricity. Yes, the costs of wind and solar are dropping dramatically. That's great news. But for now, they provide just 5% of our power supply. And scaling up their market share takes time. Retaining existing nuclear power is good for consumers. A nuclear plant operates around the clock, and wind and solar only operate when the wind is blowing and the sun is shining. In 2015, one megawatt of wind capacity produced power 32% of the time, one megawatt of solar produced power 29% of the time. 
In the long term, of course, the current fleet of nuclear plants will eventually retire and needs to be replaced by electric resources that don't contribute to climate change. But in the near term, any time a nuclear unit retires, its output is replaced by plants that burn fossil fuel. That's the reality we face. 
Given all that, allowing existing nuclear plants to close would be a disaster. Nuclear plants' output helps to keep electricity prices lower than they would otherwise be, and premature loss of safely operating nuclear plants would leave the nation's electric-resource mix much less diverse, with much higher costs and much higher carbon emissions. To repeat: I, too, want to see the nation's power sector reduce its carbon footprint, rather than increase it because existing nuclear units are closing. 
We're already probably facing big increases in power costs due to market forces and infrastructure needs. Several nuclear plants are scheduled to retire, and many other of the nation's 100 reactors -- including some of the nation's best-performing plants -- are financially challenged. 
That's happening in large part due to the effect of historically low natural-gas prices on revenue in wholesale power markets. What's more, most of those power markets don't compensate nuclear units for their carbon-free generation. Companies that generate nuclear power don't get credit for producing carbon-free electricity, the way they do for 
using renewables. And utilities that buy the power don't get rewarded for buying that electricity. 
It's also important to remember that nuclear retirements differ from other generating-unit retirements: Unlike other kinds of traditional power plants, nuclear plants cannot practically be mothballed and then brought back on line if need be, because of the huge costs incurred even in a temporary shutdown. This means that once a unit is retired, its electric-system benefits go away for good. With this in mind, keeping a plant in operation provides important insurance to help keep us on course to reduce carbon emissions. 
And there are potentially benefits to nuclear in the long term -- if we continue investing in nuclear and figuring out how to design advanced technologies to bring down their construction and operating costs, bring them to markets in much shorter time frames, and address the core safety and waste-management problems of this fuel. 
It's too soon to know that we can do that, and it's also too soon to throw out them out of the running. We need to keep our options as robust as possible if we want to address climate change both urgently and cost-effectively. 
We've got our work cut out for us, even with existing nuclear plants as part of our near-term mix. 
Dr. Tierney is a senior adviser at the Analysis Group, an economic, financial and strategic consulting firm. She can be reached at reports@wsj.com. 
NO: 
Nuclear Isn't 
Clean -- or Cheap 
By Michael Dorsey 
"A ridiculously expensive way to boil water!" 
That's what a good friend always remarked when asked what he thought about nuclear power. 
In October 2016, the world experienced an unprecedented historical milestone. For the first time in history, the International Energy Agency confirmed that in the previous year renewable energy, largely from solar and wind, became the biggest source of new global electricity capacity, surpassing coal. This achievement received headline attention. In fact, solar and wind alone already have more energy-generation capacity than nuclear power. By the end of 2015, the world-wide capacity of wind-power generation all by itself reached 432 gigawatts, while global nuclear-power-generation capacity was only 383 gigawatts. 
Nuclear advocates have always faced a tough reality. Questions of safety aside, the costs of licensing, maintaining and running a nuclear-power plant and properly disposing of the waste are becoming increasingly impossible to manage. 
Approximately a quarter of U.S. reactors have underwater operating expenses. They are cost-ineffective and noncompetitive at current electricity-generation rates. Upside-down nuclear finances are worsened as the prices of solar- and wind-energy generation continue to fall. 
From California to New York and at many points in between, like Illinois and Nebraska, nuclear plants have been closed, are closing or are scheduled to close. The Nuclear Energy Institute, the industry's leading trade association, has forecast that possibly an additional 15 to 20 nuclear plants are at risk of a premature shutdown in the next decade due to financial troubles. The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission is currently overseeing the decommissioning of 19 closed nuclear reactors across the country. Some countries -- Belgium, Germany, Spain and Switzerland -- have announced that they are phasing out nuclear power entirely. 
Some critics argue that closing nuclear plants will increase the amount of fossil-fuel use, and, by extension, the amount of greenhouse gases that are then released into the atmosphere. 
But the only way that fossil-fuel power generation goes up is if those plants increase their output. The reality is that every efficient power plant already operates at its maximum output. And when energy companies make their big investments these days, they are moving in two dominant directions: building new renewable capacity and making their inefficient fossil-fuel plants efficient -- they aren't building new, "dirty" plants. There aren't huge amounts of new carbon that are about to come on line if we close down nuclear plants. 
Some also say renewables are costly and take too long to get up to speed, so we need nuclear in the meantime. 
First, nuclear plants are retired over years -- sometimes it can take almost a decade. Meanwhile, the price of solar took just five years to drop almost 70%, and it continues to fall at record rates. Renewables are now vastly cheaper than nuclear power, and the price will continue to fall. 
Finally, there's one big falsehood at the core of arguments for nuclear: that it's "clean." The full life cycle of nuclear power -- from mining, milling, the separation of the uranium from the ore, to ultimate plant decommissioning -- collectively generates vast amounts of carbon dioxide. 
To put it another way: Nuclear reactors are only carbon-free when they are created out of thin air, like something in a Bugs Bunny cartoon. And they bring many other environmental costs beyond carbon, such as the disposal of their waste, When we account for the full environmental cost of nuclear plants over their lifetime, they do not make fiscal sense. 
Continuing advancements, steadily falling prices and economies of scale are rapidly accelerating the spread of renewables. Spending time and resources on 20th-century nuclear power plants is folly. 
Focusing efforts on a cleaner, renewable energy future is a triple win: for the environment, the economy and public health. 
Dr. Dorsey is a director on the Sierra Club National Board and full member of the Club of Rome. He can be reached at reports@wsj.com. 

(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Industrial plant emissions;  
Alternative energy;  
Series & special reports;  
Nuclear power plants;  
Emissions control  
Location  United States--US  
Title  Big Issues in Energy (A Special Report) --- Is Nuclear Power Vital to Hitting Emissions Targets?  
Author  Anonymous  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  R.1  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Nov 14, 2016  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1838662904  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1838662904?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-24  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 118 of 376 


Big Issues in Energy (A Special Report) --- What's the Best Way to Finance New Energy Tech? 
Sweet, Cassandra.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]14 Nov 2016: R.5. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Big+Issues+in+Energy+%28A+Special+Report%29+--­+What%27s+the+Best+Way+to+Finance+New+Energy+Tech%3F&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2016-11­14&volume=&issue=&spage=R.5&au=Sweet%2C+Cassandra&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
To explore the challenge of financing new energy technologies, we spoke with Severin Borenstein, E.T. Grether chair in business administration and public policy at the University of California at Berkeley's Haas School of Business; Jim Rogers, former chairman and chief executive of Duke Energy Corp.; and Jesse Pichel, managing director at Roth Capital Partners in New York. [...]many of the new strategic investors are from China, who are increasingly putting money to work, especially if there is an application in China. 

Full text 
As diplomats from 200 nations gather this week in Marrakesh, Morocco, for U.N.-sponsored global climate talks, one likely topic of discussion will be better, cleaner and lower-cost energy technologies. 
Raising financial support for new energy technologies is a major roadblock, particularly as private funding has declined. U.S. venture-capital equity financing for new energy and other clean technologies has fallen to $2.2 billion this year through September, from $5.7 billion in 2011, according to Dow Jones VentureSource. 
To explore the challenge of financing new energy technologies, we spoke with Severin Borenstein, E.T. Grether chair in business administration and public policy at the University of California at Berkeley's Haas School of Business; Jim Rogers, former chairman and chief executive of Duke Energy Corp.; and Jesse Pichel, managing director at Roth Capital Partners in New York. Here are edited excerpts. 
WSJ: What do you see as the most promising way to finance new energy technologies? 
MR. BORENSTEIN: The good news has been the great technological progress in solar photovoltaic cells, wind power and storage, which has brought renewable costs way down. But the bad news for renewables has been the fracking revolution that has lowered natural-gas and oil prices to less than half the consensus forecasts of a decade ago. Innovative approaches to financing are important, but they can't overcome the tide of fundamentals. 
MR. ROGERS: Venture-capital and private-equity investment of clean-tech startups is diminished. There are multiple approaches emerging to take their place. Some are similar to Bill Gates's bold approach of putting billions of dollars into looking for big solutions. There is another approach, in which organizations or investment groups focus more on helping startups scale their technology. As a consequence of scaling it, it attracts new investment. Broadscale Group [an investment firm working with energy and industrial companies and strategic partners] is an example of this. 
MR. PICHEL: Most VCs who got into the clean-tech sector early had poor performance, which for all practical purposes forced them out of the sector. Or they have become much more discerning, which means the clean-tech companies they will look at fall into a very small universe. 
Now, we have seen the VC marketplace mature with certain VC clean-tech specialists rising to the top. There are a dozen VCs that have cut teeth in the sector and have developed an expertise. They are shortlisted for any new investment in the sector. Again, these groups are much more discerning and there are fewer of them, which means fewer companies can get VC funding. 
We have seen the advent of strategic VCs that are backed by utility, fossil-fuel or energy-equipment global conglomerates. Some of these strategic VCs in the advanced-energy sector are backed by multiple strategic limited partners. This has two advantages: The strategic VC can leverage the expertise of the limited partners to gain confidence around an investment. And the limited partners can become early-adoption customers or partners for the company. 
Also, we are seeing more socially responsible investing, or SRI, impact investing and green initiatives. We have seen numerous billionaires start SRI/green funds. Many of these executives are from the technology, industrial and fossil-fuel arenas. These investors do not require the high rates of return witnessed from traditional VCs. These investors are often motivated by the challenge and impact from such investment, and not the short-term gain in value. These are often the best investors a startup company can have. 
Finally, many of the new strategic investors are from China, who are increasingly putting money to work, especially if there is an application in China. 
WSJ: Are cheap oil and gas making it difficult to finance new, cleaner energy technologies? 
MR. ROGERS: With cheap, available gas, the power industry has switched from coal to gas. From 2005-2015 the power sector reduced its carbon emissions by 20% primarily due to this shift. Would there have been a similar switch so soon, with any of the clean technologies on the horizon today? Gas made electricity cleaner and cheaper, and did it really fast. 
MR. BORENSTEIN: Cheap natural gas has lowered electricity prices and has been the primary driver of reduced coal consumption. That has probably reduced GHG emissions, though the most recent research on fugitive emissions [leaking natural gas] suggests the gains may be significantly smaller than we have been thinking. 
In any case, the role of natural gas is limited when it comes to reducing world-wide GHG emissions. We need to move to low- or zero-GHG energy sources rapidly, which could mean wind and solar, but eventually could also mean next-generation nuclear power, some tidal/wave power technologies that are still in their infancy, and carbon capture and sequestration, which could be combined with coal or natural-gas power plants to vastly reduce their emissions. 
WSJ: Should the government intervene with financial help or mandates for energy companies to adopt new technologies? California is requiring its three largest utilities to buy or contract for 1,325 megawatts of grid energy storage by 2020, and other states are considering similar measures. 
MR. BORENSTEIN: We should subsidize new energy sources and in some cases even mandate certain sources, along with pricing greenhouse gases. Those are not conflicting policies, they are complementary policies. 
We need to create cost-effective, low-carbon energy, and that means experimenting. We should support new technologies with the goal of their spreading to the developing world. Any technology we subsidize should be subject to that test: Is this something that the developing world is plausibly going to follow? 
I would argue that rooftop solar does not meet that test. The panels have gotten much cheaper, but it's hard to see how the developing world is ever going to find it cost-effective to put solar panels on individual homes. 
MR. ROGERS: There needs to be an increase in government research-and-development spending. We talk about climate change, but we're not investing to reduce the carbon footprint of our electricity sector or our transportation sector. Nature could provide 30% to 40% of the solution to the carbon emissions in our environment, through things such as reforestation. 
There is no great sense of urgency to develop new technologies that produce low-carbon electricity to consumers that's affordable and drives our economy. 
MR. PICHEL: The fossil industry has enjoyed favorable government policy and subsidies for decades, and that continues today. Renewables are still not competing on a level playing field in terms of policy support. In addition, fossils emit carbon pollution, and their extraction methods have a negative environmental profile, thus fossils have a cost to society that is not properly reflected. A renewable electron is pollution-free, sustainable, anti-inflationary and is inherently worth more than a fossil electron, and that should be priced correctly in U.S. policy. 
Given the steep cost-reduction curves of renewables and the strategic national benefit of having a lower-cost, sustainable, more diversified, and distributed power complex, it would behoove the U.S. to support the industry with R&D and deployment mandates. It's in our national interest. 
MR. BORENSTEIN: When you run experiments, at some point, some of those experiments have to be declared failures. You can't just keep pouring money into a technology that isn't going to work. We're supporting carbon capture and storage right now, and we should be giving it a try. At some point, if it doesn't make progress, you pull the plug. 
MR. PICHEL: The German model [of subsidizing renewable energy] seemed to work, and it brought down the level of subsidy as the cost came out. Once industry volumes reached a certain level, the subsidies ratcheted down. The idea was to efficiently subsidize the industry. 
America gives a straight 30% off [in the form of a federal investment-tax credit], and that really did not bring down the costs as quickly as in other countries. The tax equity has a cost, and the accounting treatment is also complex. You haven't really seen as many corporations invest in renewable energy through tax credits as I would have hoped because it's complicated and there's impact to the balance sheet and income statement for the companies that do it. 
If it were simpler to invest in clean energy, there would be more investment. 
Ms. Sweet is a reporter for The Wall Street Journal in San Francisco. Email her at cassandra.sweet@wsj.com. 
Credit: By Cassandra Sweet 

(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Entrepreneurial finance;  
Series & special reports;  
Energy industry;  
Clean technology  
People  Borenstein, Severin; Rogers, Jim; Pichel, Jesse  
Title  Big Issues in Energy (A Special Report) --- What's the Best Way to Finance New Energy Tech?  
Author  Sweet, Cassandra  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  R.5  

Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Nov 14, 2016  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Interview  
ProQuest document ID  1838662868  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1838662868?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-24  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 119 of 376 


Trump Victory Shakes Businesses --- President-elect's stance on trade, infrastructure and taxes reshapes firms' prospects 
Mann, Ted; Olson, Bradley; Tangel, Andrew.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]10 Nov 2016: B.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Trump+Victory+Shakes+Businesses+---+President­elect%27s+stance+on+trade%2C+infrastructure+and+taxes+reshapes+firms%27+prospects&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2016-11­10&volume=&issue=&spage=B.1&au=Mann%2C+Ted%3BOlson%2C+Bradley%3BTangel%2C+Andrew&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Mr. Trump has promised to spend $1 trillion on infrastructure projects, a position that was applauded by Caterpillar Inc. The President-elect has pledged to cut corporate tax rates and boost infrastructure spending, but has criticized the North American Free Trade Agreement and the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a trade pact to lower or eliminate tariffs between the U.S.\n 

Full Text 
Executives world-wide encountered a political and economic landscape radically changed by Donald Trump's surprise election that reverberated through the energy, health-care and manufacturing sectors. 
U.S. businesses braced for revamped trade pacts and a potential crackdown on overseas operations, coupled with the promise of lower taxes, lighter regulation and higher infrastructure spending at home. Executives in Asia and Europe said they were hopeful their close ties with the U.S. economy would endure the political upheaval and heated campaign rhetoric. 
"This election is the latest step in a longer-term, global trend that we have been adjusting to for a while -- one that's marked by political volatility and populism," Jeff Immelt, CEO of General Electric Co., wrote in a message to his employees. 
For the energy industry, Mr. Trump's victory fanned expectations that he would clear the path for new pipelines, end U.S. participation in global climate change pacts and undo environmental regulations to boost American coal mining. 
Scott Sheffield, CEO of Pioneer Natural Resources Co., said Mr. Trump would perk up the country's stagnant drilling boom by making it easier to build pipelines that unlock areas rich in oil and gas. "His message about creating jobs is why he broke the blue wall" and attracted votes from Democrats in some states, Mr. Sheffield said. 
Continental Resources Inc. chief Harold Hamm, Mr. Trump's chief adviser on energy issues, said subsidies for renewable energy like solar and wind, and credits for electric cars, should be eliminated. "None of it should be subsidized, none of it," Mr. Hamm said Wednesday. "If it makes it in the market, fine." 
Still, some rooftop solar executives voiced optimism, saying green power enjoys support from a bipartisan majority of consumers. "We do not see this election as changing its course," said Ed Fenster, chairman and co-founder of San Francisco-based Sunrun Inc. 
Mr. Trump's victory also sent waves through the U.S. health-care industry, providing relief to drugmakers worried about the specter of government price limits but fanning fears for hospital operators and some health insurers that the Medicaid expansion in President Barack Obama's health law could get rolled back. 
That provision had brought those companies more paying customers. 
Mr. Trump has vowed to repeal the Affordable Care Act, though many analysts think it is unlikely all of the health law's effects would be undone. Mr. Trump also took aim at high drug prices during his campaign, hinting at measures such as re-importation of drugs and giving Medicare powers to negotiate drug prices to limit price rises. 
"Health-care reform is in place, it's going to be modified, it's going to move forward," said J. Mario Molina, the CEO of Molina HealthCare Inc., a large insurer of Medicaid patients. "We're going to see Obamacare 2.0, maybe they will call it Trumpcare, or Ryancare" after House Speaker Paul Ryan (R., Wis.). He suggested that Medicaid may extend under the new administration and the law's exchanges might also survive -- perhaps with reduced subsidies and more flexibility for insurers. 
Despite the election outcome, the industry still has to reckon with "the very real concerns the public has" about drug prices and health-care affordability, said Ron Cohen, CEO of drugmaker Acorda Therapeutics Inc. "Those issues have not changed substantively just because we have a new administration," he said. 
Mr. Trump has promised to spend $1 trillion on infrastructure projects, a position that was applauded by Caterpillar Inc. 
The President-elect has pledged to cut corporate tax rates and boost infrastructure spending, but has criticized the North American Free Trade Agreement and the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a trade pact to lower or eliminate tariffs between the U.S. and 11 other countries including Japan and Vietnam. He has also been critical of China, the biggest U.S. trading partner. 
In an open letter Wednesday to Mr. Trump, a group of CEOs including the leaders of Boeing Co., Procter & Gamble Co. and United Technologies Corp. expressed an "urgent need to restore faith in our vital economic and government institutions." 
Manufacturers are eager to work with the Trump administration on boosting infrastructure-spending and easing regulatory and tax burdens, said Jay Timmons, CEO of the National Association of Manufacturers. 
But Mr. Timmons acknowledged the industry was at odds with Mr. Trump's trade rhetoric, and said the manufacturing group would need to mount a better public case highlighting how open markets can increase U.S. exports. "We just have to do a better job at communicating that, and frankly we haven't done so." 
Credit: By Ted Mann, Bradley Olson and Andrew Tangel 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Presidential elections;  
Business community;  
International trade  
Location  United States--US  
People  Trump, Donald J  
Title  Trump Victory Shakes Businesses --- President-elect's stance on trade, infrastructure and taxes  
reshapes firms' prospects  
Author  Mann, Ted; Olson, Bradley; Tangel, Andrew  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.1  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Nov 10, 2016  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1837555469  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1837555469?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-24  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 120 of 376 


Trump's Victory: Energy, Climate Set for New Tack 
Harder, Amy.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]10 Nov 2016: A.6. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Trump%27s+Victory%3A+Energy%2C+Climate+Set+for+New+Tack&tit 11-10&volume=&issue=&spage=A.6&au=Harder%2C+Amy&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Other regulations Mr. Trump's administration will likely reconsider include two that have been blocked for now by federal courts: an Interior Department rule setting standards for hydraulic fracturing for oil and gas wells on public lands; and an Environmental Protection Agency provision bringing more small waterways and wetlands under federal protection. 

Full Text 
On energy and environment issues, President-elect Donald Trump appears likely to spend the next four years working to unravel the expansive agenda President Barack Obama has cultivated. 
Most of the action out of the gate, and potentially for a long time, could involve rolling back regulations. 
Mr. Trump has said he would withdraw Mr. Obama's climate rule cutting power-plant carbon emissions, which is already facing a legal challenge that is almost certain to reach the Supreme Court. A federal appeals court decision on that regulation is expected in coming months, and a Trump administration could take the opportunity to opt out of defending the rule. 
Other regulations Mr. Trump's administration will likely reconsider include two that have been blocked for now by federal courts: an Interior Department rule setting standards for hydraulic fracturing for oil and gas wells on public lands; and an Environmental Protection Agency provision bringing more small waterways and wetlands under federal protection. 
Undoing regulations can be a lengthy endeavor and is often easier said than done. But a Trump administration could take a series of steps that collectively blunt the regulations, like starting a formal process to withdraw them or relaxing the compliance requirements. 
Proactively, Mr. Trump has said he would revitalize the coal industry, but even coal executives have said market forces, namely cheap natural gas, make it hard for a president to help the coal industry in any substantial way. 
The president-elect has also said he would unlock vast reserves of oil and natural gas -- although doing so risks undercutting his promise to help the coal industry. 
Mr. Trump has called climate change a hoax, and he has said he would review a 2009 scientific finding issued by the Obama administration that provides the legal underpinning for the departing president's regulatory approach to climate change. 
Such a move would surely be challenged in court and likely lose, but the mere act of reviewing the finding could cast a cloud of political uncertainty over the science of climate change, which nearly all scientists agree is caused at least partly by humans' burning of fossil fuels. 
Mr. Trump has also vowed to back out of a global deal addressing climate change and cut off U.S. aid to the $100 billion global climate fund to help poorer nations. He couldn't cancel the deal unilaterally, but could begin the process of withdrawing the U.S. 
Or he could establish a requirement that the Senate ratify the deal, which it would be unlikely to do. 
Credit: By Amy Harder 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Environmental policy; 
Federal regulation; 
Energy policy 


People 	Trump, Donald J 
Title 	Trump's Victory: Energy, Climate Set for New Tack 
Author 	Harder, Amy 
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.6  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Nov 10, 2016  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1837531146  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1837531146?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 121 of 376 


Green Elites Face Trump Threat 
Jenkins, Holman W, Jr.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]09 Nov 2016: A.17. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Green+Elites+Face+Trump+Threat&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn= 11-09&volume=&issue=&spage=A.17&au=Jenkins%2C+Holman+W%2C+Jr&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Yet last week he estimated that even if electric vehicles accounted for half of global auto sales (currently EVs account for less than 1%), oil consumption would nevertheless continue to rise because the "demand growth is not coming from cars, it's from trucks, aviation and the petrochemical industry and we don't have major alternatives to oil products there." 

Full Text 
Whatever you think of Donald Trump, his candidacy represents an important opportunity. It's a chance to dismiss a very particular elite about whom it could be said, borrowing from Cromwell, "For any good you have been doing . . . in the name of God, go!" 
We are referring, of course, to America's green-energy elite. 
With a Hillary Clinton victory on Tuesday, America's ludicrous Tesla subsidies would be certain to continue -- because so many Democratic politicians aligned with the company, especially in California, are themselves too big to fail. 
Washington's Kafkaesque fuel mileage rules would only become more Kafkaesque. By forcing car makers and their customers to invest in economically unjustified fuel-saving technology, they've already perversely contributed to last summer's breaking of a decade-old record for miles traveled and fuel burned. 
Ethanol's alleged greenhouse benefits have long since been scientifically debunked. Its putative contribution to America's "energy security" has been rendered a joke by the fracking revolution. Never mind. Corn farmers like a handout, and corn-state senators like being re-elected. The cost to American motorists: $10 billion a year. 
And making sure it remains so -- we hardly needed the latest WikiLeaks dump to tell us -- have been a handful of activist hedge-fund billionaires like Tom Steyer and Nat Simons. In the recent dump of emails stolen from Clinton campaign chief John Podesta, we see these men, in return for being willing to write four-figure checks to Democratic candidates, fishing for reassurance that policies that cost the American people billions, with no benefits, will be embraced by the next Democratic administration. 
We see climate saints like Bill McKibben and Joe Romm conspiring at their behest to silence a scientist for saying perfectly accurate things about the lack of evidence for a worsening of extreme weather events. We see Mr. Podesta himself trying to orchestrate a media mugging of liberal Harvard Law Prof. Larry Tribe for representing the coal industry. 
And to what end, exactly? 
Fatih Birol, head of the International Energy Agency, is hardly a green-energy naysayer. Yet last week he estimated that even if electric vehicles accounted for half of global auto sales (currently EVs account for less than 1%), oil consumption would nevertheless continue to rise because the "demand growth is not coming from cars, it's from trucks, aviation and the petrochemical industry and we don't have major alternatives to oil products there." 
Mr. Birol politely failed to mention that the climate effect would also be nil, because these electric cars would be running on coal. China, the world's biggest consumer of electric vehicles, fires up a new coal plant at the rate of one or two per week and will do so for years to come. 
President Obama's "clean power plan," costing upward of $200 billion over the next 15 years, will have no discernible effect on temperatures even a century hence. A catastrophic idiocy has informed Europe's favoritism toward diesel cars: In return for trivial CO2 gains, it got dirtier air in its cities. The Nature Conservancy, in a 2009 study, finds that even a modest U.S cap-and-trade program of the sort preached by greenies would require "an area larger than the state of Nebraska" for biofuels, wind and solar. 
And still the effect would be meaningless: A 100% cut in U.S. emissions, by the standard climate sensitivity estimate, would influence temperatures by less than 0.2 degrees centigrade a century from now. 
Even a carbon tax -- the sensible policy -- would offer no help unless the technological possibility already exists of meeting human needs with alternative energy at a price competitive with fossil fuels. If so, such technology will be forthcoming anyway for market reasons. 
All this might be terrifically worrisome if climate change fears were soundly established by science. They aren't. Al Gore-like forecasts of doom rely on doubtful computer simulations. As the International Panel on Climate Change delicately phrases it, numerous possible paths for future temperature are in rough "agreement with observations." This is a roundabout way of saying that the observations have been unable to discern an effect, if any, of human-scale emissions on global temperature. 
But then policies in a democracy are not sustained by their rationale. They are sustained by vested interests. Mr. Trump may be rude, crude, and largely visionless to boot. Yet purely by virtue of being out of sympathy with such elites his election would go a long way to de-corrupting America at least as far as energy policy is concerned. 
We could still hope for action from Hillary Clinton on tax reform and other worthwhile pieces of the American agenda, but we will have missed an opportunity in this election to rein in perhaps the most dishonest, self-serving interest group of any in the American pageant. 
Credit: By Holman W. Jenkins, Jr. 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Presidential elections;  
Energy policy  
People  Clinton, Hillary; Trump, Donald J  
Company / organization  Name: International Energy Agency  
NAICS: 926130, 928120, 541720  
Title  Green Elites Face Trump Threat  
Author  Jenkins, Holman W, Jr  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.17  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Nov 9, 2016  
column  Business World  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1837156574  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1837156574?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 122 of 376 


The Great Unraveling: Populist Waves Flood GOP --- Donald Trump seized on Republican Party's failure, over decades, to absorb new supporters 
Seib, Gerald F; O'Connor, Patrick.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]27 Oct 2016: A.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=The+Great+Unraveling%3A+Populist+Waves+Flood+GOP+--­+Donald+Trump+seized+on+Republican+Party%27s+failure%2C+over+decades%2C+to+absorb+new+supporters&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2016­10-27&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Seib%2C+Gerald+F%3BO%27Connor%2C+Patrick&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
[A series examining the causes and consequences of 2016's political upheaval] When Donald Trump rode down an escalator at Trump Tower to launch his presidential campaign in June 2015, he began galvanizing a populist version of the Republican Party. While they didn't share the business-friendly economic views of the Republican Party, it offered them allegiance on cultural issues such as hatred of draft dodgers, mistrust of busing to achieve racial desegregation and anger at the sex-and-drugs counterculture. 

Full Text 
[A series examining the causes and consequences of 2016's political upheaval] 
When Donald Trump rode down an escalator at Trump Tower to launch his presidential campaign in June 2015, he began galvanizing a populist version of the Republican Party. 
But he didn't create it. 
The GOP that carried Mr. Trump to the presidential nomination was formed by waves of new voters who washed onto Republican shores in the last four decades: George Wallace Southerners, Ronald Reagan Democrats, Pat Buchanan pitchfork populists and tea-party foot soldiers. 
The Republican establishment was happy to have the votes of these newcomers, many from America's working class, and accommodated their cultural preferences on social issues from guns to abortion to gay marriage. What the establishment didn't do was adjust the GOP's economic approach to match the populist impulses -- or even seem to consider such a shift necessary. 
Mr. Trump did. After entering the presidential race with just 3% to 5% support in national polls, he amplified the belief among millions of Republican newcomers that free-trade deals did more harm than good. He defended Social Security and Medicare benefits. He relentlessly voiced the fear that immigration shreds the economic and cultural well-being of the middle class. 
Those grievances coalesced into an explosion that shocked Republican leaders, crippled the party establishment and will likely alter the GOP's direction for years regardless of the Nov. 8 election's outcome. 
Mr. Trump's campaign, like the waves of change that preceded it, has attracted new voters to the Republican party but driven others away. He has opened a deep divide that will be hard to heal and could even split the party into two sides, one made up of newly energized populists and the other of more-traditional moderates and conservatives. 
If Mr. Trump wins, he figures to steer the GOP down the more-populist path his campaign has traveled, potentially driving away establishment figures, conservative thinkers and business leaders. He has increasingly belittled those who disagree with him on trade, immigration and foreign policy. They would have to decide whether the party can remain a home for them. 
If he loses, a nasty debate about what Republicans stand for is likely to erupt, including "a lot of finger-pointing" from Trump supporters who will blame the establishment for failing to get behind their man, predicts former House Republican leader Eric Cantor. 
Either way, he says, Republicans should "take the lesson learned from Donald Trump, which is that he has tapped into that anger that says our policies just aren't always yielding positive results" for many average Americans. 
A few Republicans saw the explosion coming long ago. As early as 2001, Tim Pawlenty, later Minnesota's governor and a presidential candidate, warned that the GOP needed "to be the party of Sam's Club, not just the country club." 
Mr. Buchanan tapped into anti-immigration anger in his first presidential campaign in 1992. "We were saying: 'This is what's going to happen,'" he recalls. "And it happened." 
Why did so many supposedly smart politicians not see Donald Trump's soldiers gathering? 
"It really is the elitism," says Tom Davis, a former Republican congressman from Virginia. The attitude of many in the party was "we're smart, and they're stupid, and we'll just feed them abortion and guns," he says. "It didn't have to be this way." 
In 1970, Mr. Davis was a young political aide in President Richard Nixon's White House and worked for an adviser named Harry Dent. Mr. Dent grew up in South Carolina and was plotting to woo conservative Southerners from their traditional mooring in the Democratic Party. 
Many of those Democrats voted for George Wallace, the pro-segregation former Alabama governor, as a third-party presidential candidate in 1968. He won five states in the Deep South, and many supporters felt alienated from a Democratic Party that was moving to the left. 
Mr. Dent and his team made sure the GOP provided a home to disaffected Democrats. While they didn't share the business-friendly economic views of the Republican Party, it offered them allegiance on cultural issues such as hatred of draft dodgers, mistrust of busing to achieve racial desegregation and anger at the sex-and-drugs counterculture. 
John Sears, a political operative who worked for Presidents Reagan and Richard Nixon, says Mr. Nixon appealed to crossover Democrats in some of the same ways that Mr. 

Trump appeals to populists now. Messrs. Nixon and Trump were widely scorned by media and political establishments of their time. 
The Southern strategy helped Mr. Nixon win re-election in 1972, and a party long dominated by small-town Midwesterners, Northeastern liberals and a smattering of Western 
conservatives sprouted a new populist wing. 

Growth of the party's Southern-based populism was interrupted by Southern Baptist farmer Jimmy Carter's election in 1976. The Democrat's presidency was widely regarded as 

a failure, opening the door to the next wave of GOP newcomers. 
In 1980, Reagan Democrats were drawn to Mr. Reagan's plain-spoken declaration that liberal policies dragged down them and their communities. Their conversion to the 
Republican Party completed its consolidation in the South and drew in disgruntled workers from the upper Midwest. 

The Reagan Democrats bought into the conservative philosophy of tax cuts, and Mr. Reagan sang the party's odes to the economic virtues of immigration. He broke with classic 

conservatism by imposing tariffs and quotas on Japanese goods, which won him the applause of union members. 
Mr. Buchanan's first presidential campaign pointed to trade and immigration as culprits in the faltering economy. He toured the Mexican border to raise concerns about 
undocumented immigrants flooding into the U.S. The government later erected a wall along that same stretch of border. 

In his speech to the Republican Convention in 1992, Mr. Buchanan challenged the party to stand up for middle-class workers still struggling to emerge from that era's recession. He cited loggers in northern California put out of work to protect the spotted owl and Korean-American business owners who stood up to looters during the Los Angeles riots. 
"They are our people, and we need to reconnect with them," said Mr. Buchanan. "We need to let them know we know they're hurting." 
The GOP leadership fought Mr. Buchanan, and there weren't enough pitchfork populists for him to prevail. He lost the nomination to a thoroughly mainstream Republican, 
George H.W. Bush, who then lost to Bill Clinton. While the increasing cultural conservatism of the GOP had attracted some new voters, it also drove away some moderate voters. 

Republican leaders thought Mr. Buchanan's failure showed the limited appeal of his message. A better explanation is that much of it was siphoned away by billionaire populist 

Ross Perot, who ran in 1992 as an independent and in 1996 as a third-party candidate. He got 19% of the vote in 1992. 
In 2000, the Republicans' conservative and Wall Street wings coalesced behind George W. Bush, propelling him into the White House with a message that was friendly to 
traditionalists and business. 

But the party's new working-class voters were growing more uneasy with traditional GOP economic formulas. Those pressures appeared first in the House, the chamber of 

Congress closest to the grass roots. 
The House abandoned Mr. Bush's call to overhaul Social Security and then rebelled on immigration. Instead of supporting a business-friendly guest-worker program and some 
path to legal status for undocumented immigrants already in the U.S., House Speaker Dennis Hastert, a Republican from Illinois, started a campaign against illegal immigration 
and ordered committee chairmen to hold field hearings along the Mexican border. 

In 2006, Congress passed legislation that was signed into law to fence hundreds of miles along the border, an early embrace of a signature proposal made by Mr. Trump from 

the start of his campaign. 
The GOP also benefited from growing Democratic concern about climate change and hostility to fossil fuels. The positions pushed working-class voters in energy-producing 
states toward the Republican Party. 

West Virginia is perhaps the starkest illustration. When Barack Obama won the White House in 2008, Democrats controlled the West Virginia state legislature, and held both of 

the state's seats in the U.S. Senate and two of three in the House. 
Republicans accused Democrats of waging war against coal. In 2014, the GOP took control of both chambers in the West Virginia legislature, won all three House seats and 
captured the Senate seat held by Democrat Jay Rockefeller for three decades. 

The financial crisis energized today's populist army more than anything else, supercharging mistrust of Wall Street and economic elites. The federal bailout of financial institutions in the fall of 2008 drove a wedge between Republican leaders who pushed for the rescue and conservative lawmakers who no longer were content with toeing the party line. 
Twice as many Republicans voted against the initial bailout bill as supported it. A revised version of the Troubled Asset Relief Program became law. 
The U.S. recession that began in 2007 and ended in 2009 cut the median net worth of American families almost in half, according to the Pew Research Center. Middle- and 
lower-income households were hit especially hard, and Americans who lacked college degrees lost more ground than any other group. 
The illusory recovery for many Americans created a fertile environment for anti-Washington candidates, none more than Mr. Trump. 
He also inherited the wave of political activism that came from the tea-party uprising. It was sparked in 2009 by anger over a federal rescue of the mortgage industry and fueled 

a Republican takeover of the House in 2010. 

The Republican establishment actually encouraged the rise of these new forces, thinking it could benefit from tea-party votes and channel the energy toward the GOP's broader 
purposes. 
In 2010, Senate campaign-committee funds fueled the Senate campaigns of numerous tea-party members. 
Soon, though, tea-party populists defied the House leadership by trying to shut down the government during spending fights. The rebel forces rose up and destroyed their own 

patron when a tea-party candidate defeated Mr. Cantor in his 2014 primary race in Virginia. 

Economic anxiety also was shaking the core Republican belief in free trade. In 2010, 52% of people who called themselves Republicans said free trade hurt the American 
economy, while just 21% said it helped, according to an NBC/CNBC poll. Republicans split on the same question in 2007. 
Last year, Rep. Jeff Duncan, a tea-party favorite from South Carolina, was one of 50 Republicans to vote against rules to expedite the approval process for trade deals. In 2011, 

he sided with the Republican-led House on trade pacts with Colombia, Panama and South Korea negotiated by the Obama administration. "Tariffs are taxes," he told an aide. 

A spokesman says Mr. Duncan still supports free trade but was concerned about increased negotiating powers that would have been granted to the president. Mr. Duncan also 
had doubts about a trans-Pacific trade deal that was to be approved under the same rules. 
The changes in the past four decades add up to a Republican Party that morphed slowly but inexorably into something fundamentally different. 

Among the 100 poorest counties in America, 74 voted for Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney in 2012. 
Tom Davis, a former Republican congressman from Virginia, often brandishes a map published by The Wall Street Journal last year showing all the counties that voted Democratic in the 1996 presidential election but had turned Republican by 2012. They form a wide, almost unbroken swath from Louisiana north through Arkansas and Missouri alongthe Mississippi River valley, branching east from there through Kentucky, Tennessee and West Virginia. 
Those counties represent the new heart of the GOP. It includes farmers and coal miners. Country music is the norm. Collars are as likely to be blue as white. An America changed by immigration stirs as much anxiety as hope. 
Long stereotyped as home to the country-club crowd, bankers and big business, the party is increasingly driven by anxious working-class voters, small-town business people and middle-aged Americans. 
At the same time, the cultural conservatism that attracted new voters to the Republican Party has repelled some upscale suburban voters who had long been reliable Republicans. The upshot is a changed electoral-college landscape that in many ways favors Democrats. 
Thus was the table set for Mr. Trump. He brought incomparable celebrity swagger to this year's race and benefited from Republican distrust of longtime party leaders and positions. Speaking directly to that exasperation enabled Mr. Trump to upend a generation of conservative orthodoxy. 
"I'm an outsider and I won the primaries," he said on NBC's "Meet the Press" in June. "I competed along with a lot of establishment people. I beat them all." 
(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: No Wonder We See a Flood of GOP Populism" -- WSJ Nov. 4, 2016) 
Credit: By Gerald F. Seib and Patrick O'Connor 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Political parties; 
Presidential elections; 
Populism 


People 	Trump, Donald J 
Company / organization 	Name: Republican Party 

NAICS: 813940 


Title 	The Great Unraveling: Populist Waves Flood GOP --- Donald Trump seized on Republican Party's 
failure, over decades, to absorb new supporters 

Author 	Seib, Gerald F; O'Connor, Patrick 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.1 
Publication year 	2016 
Publication date 	Oct 27, 2016 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 	00999660 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	News 
ProQuest document ID  1832434045  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1832434045?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 123 of 376 


U.S. News: Judges Question Scope of EPA's Power-Plant Rules 
Harder, Amy.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]28 Sep 2016: A.3. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+Judges+Question+Scope+of+EPA%27s+Power­Plant+Rules&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2016-09­28&volume=&issue=&spage=A.3&au=Harder%2C+Amy&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit heard several hours of oral arguments, with a focus on the separation of powers between Congress and the executive branch, and what constitutes a power plant source. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- Defenders and detractors of President Barack Obama's centerpiece climate-change regulation faced critical questions from a federal court Tuesday in a lawsuit that will have a far-reaching impact on how the nation fuels its electricity. 
The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit heard several hours of oral arguments, with a focus on the separation of powers between Congress and the executive branch, and what constitutes a power plant source. 
The Environmental Protection Agency issued the regulation, called the Clean Power Plan, last year, requiring a 32% reduction in power-plant carbon emissions by 2030 compared with 2005 levels. The rules are the flagship policy of Mr. Obama's climate agenda and represents the core of his administration's commitment to a United Nations agreement in Paris last year to address climate change. 
The judges said they recognized the Obama administration was acting on climate change because Congress has opted not to and in response to a Supreme Court decision almost a decade ago giving the EPA legal authority to regulate carbon emissions. But they raised questions about whether the scope of the rules go further than lawmakers intended. 
Addressing climate change through policy is "laudable," said Judge Brett Kavanaugh, adding, "The Earth is warming. Humans are contributing. I understand the frustration with Congress." 
But Judge Kavanaugh said Congress needs to clearly assign an agency the authority to address a major policy issue like climate change. It's not clear Congress has done so in this case, he said, despite the EPA's assertion that it is relying on part of the Clean Air Act. "Global warming is not a blank check," Judge Kavanaugh said. 
The EPA regulation aims to push utilities to shift from coal plants to cleaner energy sources like natural gas, wind and solar. 
The judges focused much of their questioning on whether the EPA had overstepped its legal authority by seeking to broadly compel this shift away from coal. The states and companies suing the EPA argue the agency doesn't have the authority to regulate anything outside of a power plant itself. 
Judge Patricia Millett expressed concern that the administration was in effect requiring power plants to subsidize companies competing with them for electricity demand. "That seems to be quite different" from traditional regulation, Judge Millett said. 
The judges also debated an apparent legislative discrepancy nearly 30 years old that could raise questions about whether the EPA has the legal authority to regulate carbon emissions from power plants in the first place. 
"I think the language is very convoluted at best," Judge Kavanaugh said. 
Credit: By Amy Harder 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Climate change; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Power plants 


Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 

NAICS: 924110 


Title 	U.S. News: Judges Question Scope of EPA's Power-Plant Rules 
Author  Harder, Amy  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.3  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Sep 28, 2016  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1823809484  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1823809484?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 124 of 376 
Election 2016: Obama EPA Rules Face Court Battle 
Kendall, Brent; Harder, Amy.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]26 Sep 2016: A.6. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Election+2016%3A+Obama+EPA+Rules+Face+Court+Battle&title=Wall 09-26&volume=&issue=&spage=A.6&au=Kendall%2C+Brent%3BHarder%2C+Amy&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit will hear several hours of oral argument Tuesday on the power-plant regulations. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration's power-plant emissions rule faces a courtroom showdown this week, and the outcome could have big repercussions for Washington's ability to meet its promises under a landmark climate-change accord. 
The Environmental Protection Agency issued the regulations a little more than a year ago, requiring a 32% reduction in power-plant carbon emissions by 2030. 
Industry associations and a group of mostly Republican-led states filed over three dozen lawsuits challenging the rules while the GOP has made regulatory relief an issue in the 
presidential campaign. 

It is the latest clash between the White House and conservatives who say President Barack Obama has exceeded his authority on a range of issues, including immigration and health care. 
The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit will hear several hours of oral argument Tuesday on the power-plant regulations. 
A conservative Supreme Court majority intervened in February to stay the EPA rules while the case proceeds, putting the measures on pause. That 5-4 order came four days 
before Justice Antonin Scalia died, creating uncertainty about the court's direction. 

In another unusual development, the appeals court is skipping its usual routine of using a three-judge panel to hear the case, opting instead for a roster of 10 judges, a sign of 

the case's gravity. 
"It's a very pivotal issue on several levels," said Amy Myers Jaffe, executive director of energy and sustainability at the University of California, Davis. "On one level, it's a 
political issue over the power of the executive branch, and on another, it's pivotal for different stakeholders in the clean tech and coal industries." 

The EPA rules, called the Clean Power Plan, aim to push utilities to shift from coal plants to cleaner energy sources like natural gas, wind and solar. It gives states flexibility on how to reduce power-plant emissions within their borders, but alternative energy is a necessary component because the emissions targets couldn't be met solely by making existing coal-fired plants more efficient. 
Mr. Obama touted the regulations in the run-up to the United Nations climate talks in Paris last December, where about 200 countries agreed to undertake ambitious efforts to 
cut greenhouse emissions. 
The challengers say the EPA is claiming sweeping new powers to transform the energy industry without congressional authorization. They note that the EPA issued the 
regulations under a rarely used section of the Clean Air Act, and criticize the agency's promotion of clean-energy generation instead of just regulating existing pollution sources. 

"EPA's audacious assertion of authority. . .is more far-reaching than any previous effort by the agency," a group of utilities, trade associations and 26 states said in a legal brief. 

The challengers also say the agency is illegally double-regulating power plants already subject to rules limiting emission of mercury and other toxins. And they say the EPA is 
interfering with states' right to regulate their own utilities. 
The EPA says cutting power-plant emissions is crucial to abating climate change, and that it chose an attainable, cost-effective approach. The agency also says Supreme Court 

precedent supports its authority to regulate carbon pollution from power plants. 

The court's decision will pave the way for a near-certain Supreme Court fight. Even a partial rebuke of the Clean Power Plan could make it impossible for the U.S. to accomplish 
what Mr. Obama pledged in the Paris deal, the capstone of his environmental legacy and an accord supporters see as critical to fighting climate change. 
Credit: By Brent Kendall and Amy Harder 

(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Industrial plant emissions; Alternative energy; Climate change; Coal-fired power plants;  

Federal regulation; 
Litigation; 

Emission standards; 
Clean technology 


People  Obama, Barack  
Company / organization  Name:  Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS:  924110  

Title  Election 2016: Obama EPA Rules Face Court Battle  
Author  Kendall, Brent; Harder, Amy  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.6  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Sep 26, 2016  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1822917785  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1822917785?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 125 of 376 


The 'Clean Power' Putsch 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]26 Sep 2016: A.14. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=The+%27Clean+Power%27+Putsch&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn= 09-26&volume=&issue=&spage=A.14&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals hears arguments Tuesday in a challenge to President Obama's use of unilateral federal and executive power to impose his climate agenda. 

Full Text 
The D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals hears arguments Tuesday in a challenge to President Obama's use of unilateral federal and executive power to impose his climate agenda. The case is a watershed for the Constitution's separation of powers that will echo well beyond this Administration. 
In the name of reducing carbon emissions, the Environmental Protection Agency's so-called Clean Power Plan, or CPP, requires states to reorganize their energy economies across electric plants, energy-intensive industries and even households. In February the Supreme Court stayed enforcement of the CPP -- an extraordinary rebuke -- after some 28 states sued, arguing the plan usurps their authority under the Constitution. 
The EPA asserted such authority under a brief and heretofore inconsequential backwater of the 1970 Clean Air Act known as section 111(d). No one who supported that law voted to, and the statutory text does not, empower the EPA to address climate change. But the CPP requires the states to carry out federal policy instructions even if they refuse to submit their own compliance plans. 
In the American system of cooperative federalism, the federal government is supreme and can pre-empt state laws, and it often does. The EPA has the power, for example, to impose efficiency improvements or air-quality standards on existing power plants. But with the CPP it is stretching this power to unprecedented levels and commandeering state resources. 
At the heart of cooperative federalism is the right of refusal -- states must retain the power to opt out of any federal scheme. If that scheme is grounded in a law passed by Congress, the feds can take over and regulate themselves. In this case the EPA has no authority to do anything of the kind. 
Even if the CPP explicitly banned coal-fired power, the EPA cannot mandate that states switch to solar panels and wind turbines. The agency can destroy but it cannot create. Here the EPA is expecting that states will undertake the extensive and costly preparation and regulation to compensate for lost carbon power because they have no other choice to keep the lights on. The EPA is happy to let states take responsibility for problems the EPA is creating. 
The Supreme Court has often policed and struck down such commandeering. In 1992's New York v. United States, the High Court invalidated a command to states related to low-level radioactive waste, while 1997's Printz v. United States overturned a provision on background checks for gun purchasers. As recently as the ObamaCare cases of 2012, the Court ruled that the law's Medicaid expansion was an unconstitutionally coercive "gun to the head" and gave states the right to opt out. 
The CPP is far more bullying than any of these examples. Redesigning state-based energy systems to replace fossil fuels is a capital-intensive and decades-long transition, to the extent it is possible. It requires power-plant retirements and upgrades, restructuring transmission lines, building new natural-gas pipelines. States must avoid blackouts and service disruptions to protect public safety and the economy. (David Rivkin and Andrew Grossman have more legal details nearby.) 
The EPA says the CPP is run-of-the-mill pollution regulation, but Mr. Obama held an East Room ceremony calling it historic and the rule is the heart of the U.S. commitment to the Paris climate accord. Both claims can't be true. The EPA also claims the CPP "shows a deep respect for states' sovereignty by giving them the opportunity to design an emissions-reduction plan that makes sense for their citizens." In other words, as long as they are willing to suffer, they can suffer in their own way. 
Climate change has become religious faith on the left, and Mr. Obama and Senate Democrats have packed the D.C. Circuit with liberals precisely to bounce cases like this one. The court is hearing West Virginia v. EPA en banc because of its extraordinary importance, and the 10-member panel is stocked with more liberals than conservatives. But liberal judges who care about the rule of law should also worry about the danger to the constitutional order and democratic consent from the EPA's breathtaking power grab. 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Industrial plant emissions; 

Climate change; 
Coal-fired power plants; 
Clean technology; 

Alternative energy; 

Court hearings & proceedings; 
Editorials 


People 	Obama, Barack Company / organization Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA NAICS: 924110; 
Name: US Court of Appeals-District of Columbia Circuit NAICS: 922110 
Title  The 'Clean Power' Putsch  
Author  Anonymous  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.14  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Sep 26, 2016  
column  REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  1822917481  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1822917481?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2019-01-02  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 126 of 376 
Election 2016: Trump Pushes Energy Deregulation 

Miller, John W.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]23 Sep 2016: A.4. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Election+2016%3A+Trump+Pushes+Energy+Deregulation&title=Wall+S 09-23&volume=&issue=&spage=A.4&au=Miller%2C+John+W&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton has called for investment in renewable energy and steep reductions in U.S. carbon emissions as part of an effort to address global warming. 

Full Text 
PITTSBURGH -- Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump promised sweeping deregulation of natural-gas, oil and coal production as part of an "America-first energy" 
plan. 
Speaking on Thursday to a conference of 1,500 gas-industry executives, managers and salespeople, Mr. Trump said he would lift restrictions on America's "untapped energy -­some $50 trillion in shale energy, oil reserves and natural gas on federal lands, in addition to hundreds of years of coal energy reserves." 

He promised to end "all unnecessary regulations, and a temporary moratorium on new regulations not compelled by Congress or public safety." 
Mr. Trump named an $850 million coal export terminal in Washington, a $3 billion Northwest gas pipeline and a $6.8 billion gas-export terminal as examples of the fossil-fuel 

projects that have been rejected by regulators or withdrawn by supporters since 2012. A recent tally found about $33 billion in projects have been derailed by regulations, 
grass-roots opposition and falling energy prices, a figure that Mr. Trump cited. 
Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton has called for investment in renewable energy and steep reductions in U.S. carbon emissions as part of an effort to address global warming. 
The development of hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, has stimulated gas drilling throughout the Marcellus and Utica shales, creating tens of thousands of jobs, and offering new 

business opportunities for suppliers. For example, U.S. Steel Corp. expanded its business making steel pipes and tubes used in gas drilling. But the shale-gas industry has suffered since 2014, when energy prices started declining. 
Mrs. Clinton has said she supports fracking with appropriate regulations, as well as the right of local governments to restrict the practice. 
Mr. Trump promised new prosperity in the gas industry via deregulation, which he said his friends in the business were more enthusiastic about than tax cuts. He said 
deregulation would lift gross domestic product by $100 billion a year and add 500,000 jobs annually in the next seven years. 

Some conference delegates noted that on the campaign trail, Mr. Trump has focused more on coal than on gas. In his speech Thursday, Mr. Trump also promised to "end the war on coal," including rescinding a coal-lease moratorium and conducting "a top-down review" of all coal regulations issued by the Obama administration. This year is the first in which gas will supply a larger percentage of U.S. electricity than coal. 
The Obama administration has rejected Mr. Trump's and other Republicans' "war on coal" label, saying its job is to enforce environmental laws that protect the nation's air and 
water. 
Environmentalists oppose Mr. Trump's agenda. Rhea Suh of the Natural Resources Defense Council Action Fund called it "a wish list for big polluters" that would "ignore climate 
change, and allow damage to our air, land and water." 

Delegates at the conference, which routinely invites a pro-business Republican as its keynote speaker, were supportive, but some expressed reservations about Mr. Trump. 

"Hillary said she wants to ban fracking, and fracking is my livelihood, but some of the things Donald Trump says are horrible," said Rick Wasfy, a representative for a company 
which removes sand from gas wells after fracking. 
Mr. Wasfy declared himself satisfied with the speech, especially Mr. Trump's focus on deregulation. That showed that "he knows what he's talking about," Mr. Wasfy said. 
Credit: By John W. Miller 

(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Deregulation; 
Energy policy; 
Presidential elections 


Location 	United States--US 
People  Trump, Donald J  
Title  Election 2016: Trump Pushes Energy Deregulation  
Author  Miller, John W  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.4  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Sep 23, 2016  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1822323001  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1822323001?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 127 of 376 


Innovations in Energy (A Special Report) --- The Coming Price on Carbon: After years of debate, says Amy Myers Jaffe, the likelihood of a U.S. carbon tax or cap-and-trade program is greater than ever 
Amy Myers Jaffe.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]14 Sep 2016: R.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Innovations+in+Energy+%28A+Special+Report%29+--­+The+Coming+Price+on+Carbon%3A+After+years+of+debate%2C+says+Amy+Myers+Jaffe%2C+the+likelihood+of+a+U.S.+carbon+tax+or+cap-and­trade+program+is+greater+than+ever&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2016-09­14&volume=&issue=&spage=R.1&au=Amy+Myers+Jaffe&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
For years, this has largely been a theoretical debate, with the politics of imposing a carbon tax too daunting for many countries, including the U.S. Instead, they have focused on reducing fossil-fuel use, and thereby carbon emissions, through promotion of low-carbon, renewable energy and energy-efficiency standards for industry, government and personal automobiles. 

Full text 
For years, U.S. politicians have debated whether to impose a price on carbon. The time may finally have come. 
That might seem hard for most people to fathom, given the yearslong, seemingly intractable political deadlock on the issue in the U.S. But I believe we've reached a tipping point, where a tax on carbon emissions or some other price for emitting the gas is close to inevitable. 
What has changed? 
For one thing, the economic rationale for a carbon price is stronger than it ever has been. At the same time, technological advances have made it much cheaper to move away from carbon-emitting technologies, making a carbon price less punitive than it would have been in the past. Meanwhile, one of our biggest global rivals, China, is about to impose a carbon-pricing plan, meaning that the U.S. may not be at a competitive disadvantage if it institutes a similar program. 
But the most important reason is that big market players and the investors who back them are changing their minds on the issue -- and they're prepared to use their muscle to try to make a carbon price happen. Companies and investors, after all, thrive on transparency and predictability, and they fear that the current state of carbon regulations is too convoluted, making planning difficult and exposing them to risk. They see a price on the emission of carbon as a way to resolve that uncertainty and get some clarity once and for all. 
It's impossible, of course, to say precisely when a carbon price will come to pass. Much depends on the politics: It's more likely to happen, for instance, if Hillary Clinton becomes president. But I believe that the momentum has shifted markedly in the direction of a price, and that the pressure will be hard for legislators to resist in the next few years. 
For years, the U.S. and other nations have been struggling to find the best way to regulate carbon emissions. Scientists link accumulations of carbon in the Earth's atmosphere to dangerous changes taking place in the world's climate. 
In December, the U.S. and 194 other nations reached a landmark global accord to reduce carbon emissions to limit global warming to 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit). But agreeing on how to do that has proved difficult, since carbon is emitted in almost every aspect of economic activity, most notably in the use of fossil fuels for energy and in the production of such building materials as cement and steel. 
A carbon price can be achieved in a number of different ways. A carbon tax involves companies paying for every ton of carbon they emit. Under another plan, cap and trade, companies must buy from a fixed pool of permits to emit carbon, which they can then trade with other companies on a market. In a cap-and-trade system, government can distribute some permits free of charge to targeted industries to ease the transition. 
Proponents argue that some sort of carbon price is needed because emissions have costs -- such as rising sea levels caused by climate change -- that aren't borne by the carbon-emitting companies. Putting a price on carbon would reflect the true impact of carbon emissions on the world, proponents argue, and spur companies to make more economically efficient decisions regarding their use of fossil fuels, particularly spurring greater use of renewable energy sources. 
Having a carbon price, in other words, would allow the free market to do its best work. 
Opponents argue that putting a price on carbon is too complex to implement and is bound to be plagued with problems. They point out that Europe's emissions-trading program is struggling with a number of issues -- for instance, the program distributed too many permits to companies at the outset, which then overly depressed prices for permits on the market, especially now in light of Europe's sluggish economy. 
Opponents also contend that requiring companies to pay to emit carbon could harm economic growth and that U.S. emissions reductions could prove meaningless if emissions from other countries are still high enough to cause global climate damage. Countries with a carbon price could also be disadvantaged in global trade if other large economies don't follow suit. 
For years, this has largely been a theoretical debate, with the politics of imposing a carbon tax too daunting for many countries, including the U.S. Instead, they have focused on reducing fossil-fuel use, and thereby carbon emissions, through promotion of low-carbon, renewable energy and energy-efficiency standards for industry, government and personal automobiles. 
Now, though, there are forces at work that smash old arguments against carbon pricing and make a change much more likely. 
For starters, the economic argument for a price on carbon is getting more compelling, as fears grow that a carbon-related event could pose an increasing threat to the economy. Without a transparent, unified market value on carbon, there is no way to determine or offset the full extent of the risk, or to know when a risk could arise. Guessing at that value means that an unexpected trigger event -- such as a flight from stocks of companies that depend on carbon-based assets, or a steep drop in the price of carbon-based assets -- could create a shock that cascades through the economy. 
A price on carbon is also likely because there is already a de facto price on carbon, and energy companies have already accepted it as part of the cost of doing business -- so accepting an official cost isn't a huge leap to make. 
The de facto price comes from a web of regulations at the federal and state levels. We say utilities must use renewable energy. Or cars must meet higher miles-per-gallon targets. Or the methane from a shale well cannot be vented or flared. California, meanwhile, has created an outright cap-and-trade system. (A vote to extend the system past 2020 failed in the Legislature last week, but new, harsher climate rules might give the extension a better chance to pass next year.) 
The cost of complying with all these regulations amounts to a "shadow" carbon price that companies must pay, whether they call it a tax or not, and they are already baking it into their calculations. From my research and interviews, for instance, I estimate that oil companies assume a long-run carbon price of $40 to $80 a ton on their carbon emissions when weighing a new oil-field development. If the project won't return 15% under those conditions, it doesn't get the green light. 
In addition, other major U.S. trading partners have priced carbon, and so Americans already pay for carbon in goods from those countries, which include European Union countries, Japan and South Korea. 
Meanwhile, the cost of technology that helps companies comply with those regulations and cut emissions has fallen drastically -- and is much less burdensome than critics used to claim. The cost of solar panels, for example, has dropped by more than 70% since 2009 and puts the cost of solar power at parity with natural gas in some markets. The cost of battery packs for electric cars or backup solar-energy storage, storing solar power for later use, has declined by 50% or more. The Internet of Things is also enabling efficiency in a manner that is highly cost-effective and accessible. 
In addition, the argument that such a climate policy would disadvantage the U.S. economy against competitors such as China has lost a lot of its punch. At the recent meetings of the World Economic Forum in Tianjin, China, the host nation announced its intention to launch a nationwide cap-and-trade carbon-pricing market. Scholars working on the plan say it will take into account lessons from California's relatively new carbon market and a similar system in the European Union. 
Rather than hurt China economically versus the U.S., the cap-and-trade system might arguably promote China's burgeoning but already strong clean-tech industry and help it scale up and grab market share, as it has already done with photovoltaic solar panels. That will be a salient precedent for U.S. lawmakers, energy companies and other parties with a stake in carbon pricing and will create a strong incentive to push carbon pricing forward in the U.S. 
But perhaps the most important reason a carbon price is inevitable is that the big players that used to oppose it -- such as utilities, oil companies and institutional investors -­have started to back it, and more will follow. 
Several oil companies supported the early stages of a failed cap-and-trade bill in 2009. Exxon Mobil Corp. has been actively supporting a revenue-neutral carbon tax, saying the industry shouldn't oppose all climate policies and arguing that a carbon tax would be the best way to price carbon. (Exxon says that if carbon policies are going to be put in place, it would prefer a carbon tax that is revenue neutral and that pre-empts all of the "mishmash" of carbon-reducing policies.) Likewise, Total SA has said it is categorically in favor of a price. 
What is driving them? A desire for clarity. The current ad hoc nature of carbon rules leads to uncertainty. Because there's no coherent single policy, many of the rules conflict with one another and can change at a moment's notice, so projects that seem like good ideas under today's rules may turn out to be losers under tomorrow's. That uncertainty carries a heavy price, as companies risk making disastrous investments and institutional investors hold off making bets on the energy sector. 
For example, major U.S. utilities have to decide whether to shift into solar energy or continue to put investment into their newer coal plants, including coal plants with carbon capture and storage. Several major U.S. utilities have run afoul of such decision making in recent years with significant consequences to both their share prices and their customers. If these managements had had the benefit of certainty about the price of carbon, the decision about such capital investments and their payoffs would have been clearer. Long-term cash flows would be more predictable, helping shareholders and boards alike to calculate whether the firms could meet return expectations with one kind of fuel versus another. A settled pricing of carbon externalities might also discourage the kind of lawsuits that have dogged capital projects in the Southern U.S. and caused delays that are raising costs to customers. 
Regulating carbon differently in different states is also causing costly market inefficiencies by distorting corporate incentives, leading companies to take actions today that may not make sense when a national system arrives. Brands that cater to climate-conscious millennials are taking their headquarters and manufacturing operations out of states that don't have substantial renewable-energy programs to places that do have them. Biofuels made with processes that have lower emissions are being sold to California to cash in on carbon credits, even though they could be used right where they are produced. Electric utilities that have surplus power generated by renewables have no commercial incentive to sell them across state lines, limiting their usefulness and in some cases sacrificing benefits to customers. 
A federal cap-and-trade system would allow utilities to more easily trade pollution rights or renewable energy across state lines. The same is true for a carbon tax since different levels of abatement will come from different states, with the ones that can abate most cheaply doing the most. 
The lack of clarity also affects investors and lenders. There are signs that they may shy away from certain segments of the energy sector if they can't make informed decisions about where to put their funds -- potentially leaving energy companies undercapitalized and leading to inabilities to meet demands for fuel and power. In a Sector In-Depth note from June analyzing the global carbon accord, Moody's Investors Service argued that policy and regulatory uncertainty regarding the pace and detail of emissions policies "is material to credit quality now" for many companies involved in the energy business. Moody's also said "the credit impact could become material over the next three to five years" for industries including building materials, steel and auto makers. 
For all these reasons, I believe companies are wasting shareholder dollars suing to prevent or delay carbon policies. They would be better advised to prepare for the carbon-priced future that is already here. Embracing a price on carbon would go a long way toward quantifying the risks more precisely, and that would help push investment to the projects with the best long-term potential. That, in turn, will make the U.S. more competitive, reduce the risk of stranded assets and position the country to hold its lead in emerging industries such as utility-scale solar, ride sharing and batteries. 
Ms. Jaffe is executive director of energy and sustainability at the University of California, Davis, and co-author of "Oil, Dollars, Debt and Crises: The Global Curse of Black Gold." Email: reports@wsj.com. 
(See related article: "A Price on Carbon? Don't Bet on It" -- WSJ Sept. 14, 2016) 
Credit: By Amy Myers Jaffe 

(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. Database US Newsstream 
Details  
Subject  Fossil fuels;  
Climate change;  
Series & special reports;  
Carbon  
Location  United States--US  
Title  Innovations in Energy (A Special Report) --- The Coming Price on Carbon: After years of  
debate, says Amy Myers Jaffe, the likelihood of a U.S. carbon tax or cap-and-trade program is  
greater than ever  
Author  Amy Myers Jaffe  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  R.1  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Sep 14, 2016  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1818993247  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1818993247?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  

document 128 of 376 


Innovations in Energy (A Special Report) --- Spotlight on Companies' Carbon Exposure: New regulations could require firms to disclose their climate-related risks 
Cherney, Elena.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]14 Sep 2016: R.2. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Innovations+in+Energy+%28A+Special+Report%29+--­+Spotlight+on+Companies%27+Carbon+Exposure%3A+New+regulations+could+require+firms+to+disclose+their+climate­related+risks&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2016-09­14&volume=&issue=&spage=R.2&au=Cherney%2C+Elena&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Chevron's letter highlighted the climate risks it is already disclosing, noting that its "2015 Form 10-K included a significant discussion of the potential risks of additional greenhouse gas emissions regulation following the outcome of the Paris Accord," the landmark climate-change agreement reached last year. 

Full text 
As more of the world's biggest economies move toward pricing carbon, pressure is growing to require companies to make public what their carbon footprints could actually cost them -- and their investors. 
Market regulators and economic officials in the U.S. and abroad are busy discussing possible new rules for reporting climate-related risks that companies face. As environmental and energy policies continue to evolve, new costs for business could include taxes on carbon emissions and expanded use of so-called carbon markets, in which emissions allowances are traded. Many government officials, meanwhile, are concerned not just about the threat of such costs for individual companies, but the threat for entire financial systems. 
Among the most closely watched developments: a broad effort under way by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to re-examine its disclosure rules for public companies, including whether to require mandatory disclosure of risks related to climate change. 
Requiring U.S. public companies to break out those risks would mark a major shift because it would establish that the issues are material to a company's performance. That could affect companies' credit ratings or analysts' perceptions about their earnings potential. Companies could also find themselves under increased pressure if required to report their possible exposure to eventual measures by governments aimed at mitigating the impact of rising temperatures and seas. 
Energy companies would be among those most affected by a change in reporting rules, and some are opposing such changes. In a letter Chevron Corp. submitted as part of the SEC's consultation process, the company argued that under current disclosure rules companies are already required to disclose material risks including climate-change risk. Chevron's letter highlighted the climate risks it is already disclosing, noting that its "2015 Form 10-K included a significant discussion of the potential risks of additional greenhouse gas emissions regulation following the outcome of the Paris Accord," the landmark climate-change agreement reached last year. 
Many companies now disclose some information related to climate change voluntarily, such as moves to increase use of renewable energy or other steps to reduce their carbon footprint. But it's not being done in a consistent or transparent enough way to satisfy a growing body of investors. 
"Critical for us is having the SEC move the market by establishing standardized criteria for disclosing some climate-change risk," says Sarah Bernstein, a principal with the Pension Consulting Alliance, whose clients have about $1 trillion in assets under administration. A move by the SEC to provide standards and require disclosure, Ms. Bernstein says, would make it easier for investors to more accurately compare potential costs of changes in carbon rules for different companies and sectors. 
Back in June, Moody's Investors Service said it would start assessing what it termed "carbon transition risk," as part of its credit rating for companies in 13 sectors, based on the emissions-reductions goals of the Paris Agreement. 
That deal, Moody's said, "substantially increases the likelihood of coordinated and effective policies to materially reduce carbon and other greenhouse gas emissions over time." The company said it would consider four main categories of risk: direct financial effects, new technologies that lead to less fossil-fuel use, regulatory uncertainty and consumers' choices of alternatives. 
Moody's said these issues are already affecting three sectors: coal, coal infrastructure and unregulated power utilities. The company said it expects the other sectors to start being affected within three to five years. 
A spokeswoman for the SEC says its public "comment period recently concluded and staff is reviewing the comments" from companies, investors and others. She declines to comment on a timeline for decision-making. 
Meanwhile, a task force of the Financial Stability Board of the Group of 20 leading economies is expected to issue a report this fall on the financial risks posed by climate change. The report is expected to offer recommendations on how companies in different industries should disclose their exposures. 
Those recommendations, which aim in part to establish guidelines for regulators around the world, will consider not only the risk from carbon pricing or rising temperatures, but also the impact of new technologies that could limit future demand for fossil fuel. 
The implications for business are "much broader than people think," says Bruno Bertocci, an FSB member and executive at UBS Asset Management, where he is managing director, head of sustainable investors. 
Mark Carney, governor of the Bank of England and chairman of the Financial Stability Board, has become a leading voice on the risks posed to the financial system by climate change, which he has called "the tragedy of the horizon." 
"We don't need an army of actuaries to tell us that the catastrophic impacts of climate change will be felt far beyond the traditional horizons of most actors," he said in a speech last fall in London. Climate change, he added, could exact "a cost on future generations that the current generation has no direct incentive to fix." 
Ms. Cherney is The Wall Street Journal's global energy editor. Email her at elena.cherney@wsj.com. Credit: By Elena Cherney 

(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Emissions;  
Climate change;  
Series & special reports;  
Carbon  
Location  United States--US  
Company / organization  Name:  Chevron Corp  
NAICS:  324110, 211111  

Title  Innovations in Energy (A Special Report) --- Spotlight on Companies' Carbon Exposure: New  
regulations could require firms to disclose their climate-related risks  
Author  Cherney, Elena  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  R.2  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Sep 14, 2016  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  

ProQuest document ID  1818990274  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1818990274?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 129 of 376 


Texas' Latest Gusher: Wind and Sun --- Lone Star state sees surge in renewable energy after markets deregulated 
Spindle, Bill; Smith, Rebecca.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]29 Aug 2016: A.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Texas%27+Latest+Gusher%3A+Wind+and+Sun+--­+Lone+Star+state+sees+surge+in+renewable+energy+after+markets+deregulated&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2016-08­29&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Spindle%2C+Bill%3BSmith%2C+Rebecca&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The free market-oriented deregulation broke the grip of most monopoly utilities that controlled generation, transmission and retail sales of electricity and introduced competitive auctions for wholesale power. A recent poll conducted by the Texas Clean Energy Coalition, a nonpartisan group that supports the growth of gas as well renewable energy, found that despite strong distaste for federal environmental regulations aimed at reducing coal, 85% of Texans favored expanding renewables while 9% were opposed.\n 

Full Text 
SAN ANTONIO -- On a blustery February night, the Texas electricity market hit a milestone. Nearly half the power flowing onto the grid came from wind turbines, a level unimaginable a decade ago in a place better known for its long romance with fossil fuels. 
The Lone Star state still embraces its oil and gas, leading a revolution in innovative "fracking" technology. Yet an equally startling energy bonanza here has gone almost unnoticed -- the rise of renewables. 
Texas has added more wind-based generating capacity than any other state, with wind turbines accounting for 16% of electrical generating capacity as of April. Now Texas is anticipating a huge surge in solar power. 
At a time when debate is raging between political parties over climate change, and critics charge that "green energy" is little more than a government creation, Texas has taken an approach that works within the state's free-market-based electricity system. State officials say wind and solar are almost certain to play a significant and growing role in the state's energy future even when federal subsidies decline in coming years. 
"We're in chapter three of a 50-chapter book," says Joel Mickey, director of market design and development for the state's electric-grid operator, the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, or ERCOT. 
Elsewhere, most of the renewable growth is coming from blue states. California is the leader in solar power with more systems cranking out electricity, right now, than what Texas hopes to add in the next five to 10 years. New York finalized a plan Aug. 1 to get to half its power from zero-emission sources by 2030, with big goals for offshore wind turbines. And wind farms provided Iowans with nearly a third of their electricity last year -- the largest percentage of any state. Texas remains one of the few reliably Republican states to jump on the bandwagon. 
Its transformation hasn't come without risks. In the early days, the state government charged electric-system users billions of dollars to build transmission lines needed to get power from windy West Texas to power-hungry cities. There was also a steep learning curve. Renewable power is only available when the wind is blowing or the sun is shining. It can't be dispatched precisely when it's needed but just when it's available, meaning grid officials have had to become obsessive about anticipating weather. Efficient battery-storage technologies remain elusive. 
Then there is the issue of subsidies. Wind projects get hefty federal payouts whenever they generate electricity. At auctions, this means they can sometimes pay the state to take their electricity and still make money, undercutting the business model of fossil-fuel generators. 
Some critics worry this could lead power companies to decommission fossil-fuel plants prematurely -- even though some fuel sources such as natural gas and coal are arguably cheaper these days. 
"How do we keep big plants online if wind and solar have eroded the economics to the point that companies want to close them?" asks Travis Fisher, an economist with the Institute for Energy Research, a conservative think tank. 
The roots of Texas' renewables boom go back to 1999, when then-Gov. George W. Bush and a Republican-dominated legislature overhauled the Texas power market. The free market-oriented deregulation broke the grip of most monopoly utilities that controlled generation, transmission and retail sales of electricity and introduced competitive auctions for wholesale power. 
The deregulation plan, which Mr. Bush signed just days after announcing he would run for the presidency, also included a government-imposed requirement to have at least 2,000 megawatts of renewable generating capacity by 2009. 
Texas blew past that goal in 2005. Then Gov. Rick Perry, also a Republican and no fan of government intervention, raised the goal to 10,000 megawatts by 2025. Texas hit that target in 2011 and kept going. In April, there was more than 19,000 megawatts of renewable capacity, according to the U.S. Department of Energy, cranking out enough power for nearly 4 million Texas homes. 
Texas officials didn't invoke global warming to sell the program. They touted renewable energy as a consumer-choice issue, jobs producer and a way to pump money into rural counties. 
Jimmy Glotfelty, Mr. Bush's gubernatorial policy director from 1991 to 1994, says his boss "grew up in Midland where the wind blew all the time" and it gave him a hunch wind power could be a huge asset for the state. "It wasn't part of the climate-change revolution but a belief in free markets and entrepreneurs." 
A recent poll conducted by the Texas Clean Energy Coalition, a nonpartisan group that supports the growth of gas as well renewable energy, found that despite strong distaste for federal environmental regulations aimed at reducing coal, 85% of Texans favored expanding renewables while 9% were opposed. Among Republicans and those who described themselves as ideologically conservative, nearly 80% favored those sources. 
Residents of Houston currently can pick from 107 different rate plans offering 5% to 100% renewable power. In general, they are willing to pay a bit more to go green. Top-rated Reliant, a unit of NRG Energy Inc., charges 7.1 cents a kilowatt-hour for the plan that's all renewable versus 5.9 cents for one that's 5% green. 
Federal subsidies are scheduled to shrink in coming years. An equally big driver of renewables has been the falling costs of solar and wind technology. Solar costs are down 48% since 2010, including a 6% drop last year, according to the Solar Energy Industries Association, a trade group. Those reductions are likely to continue as solar-panel manufacturers achieve economies of scale and new technologies cut costs and increase efficiency. 
"[Texas] wants to have a diversity of resources because no one knows what gas prices will be in the future," says Joel Cohn, at CohnReznick, an accounting tax advisory in New York that advises on renewable projects. 
The state's grid operator, ERCOT, expects explosive growth in solar. One analysis suggested the recent extension of the federal solar tax credit could lead to as much as 19,000 megawatts of solar capacity being built within 15 years, up from roughly 500 megawatts today. Texas is poised to vault from 10th place among states in solar capacity to second in the next five years, behind only California, according to the Solar Energy Industries Association. 
Wind projects, including construction of power lines, created jobs in rural counties and gave landowners new sources of income. The state now has more than 100,000 people working in renewable energy, according to the Texas Workforce Commission, which is responsible for jobs creation. 
Two sites in San Antonio operated by the city's utility, CPS Energy, embody the change. The J.T. Deely generating plant, where smokestacks loom over piles of coal, is being retired. A few miles away, CPS's two-year-old Alamo 2 solar farm, nestled between a pair of suburban neighborhoods, turns sunlight into electricity. As a few dozen sheep and a llama keep the grass in check, solar developer Randy Jenks notes the appeal. 
"It's clean. It's quiet. People want it here," he says, standing beside a few of the 17,920 solar modules that make up the 45-acre facility. When all phases of the Alamo solar venture are completed, it is expected to exceed 450 megawatts, or more solar capacity than existed in the whole state a couple of years ago. 
Mr. Jenks started out in oil-and-gas exploration in the 1980s, then moved into wind power in the 1990s. Now he's pursuing what he and his employer, OCI Solar Power, which is part of OCI Company of South Korea, see as the next big thing for Texas. 
Back in 2010, CPS started thinking about solar. By 2012, it was ready to bet big. The utility signed deals with OCI Solar to build what would eventually be 450 megawatts of solar generating capacity -- 50% more than in all of Texas even now -- on the condition OCI set up its manufacturing operations nearby and create at least 800 local jobs. 
Now the city boasts its own solar industrial base, with all of the solar panels for its facilities manufactured locally. OCI and suppliers it brought to San Antonio are now lining up orders from developers in Mexico and other parts of the U.S. 
Renewables are still a tiny part of CPS's business, but its leadership expects them to grow rapidly. 
"The cost has come down to the point where people can really see the value," said Cris Eugster, the chief operating officer for San Antonio's utility, CPS Energy. 
Credit: By Bill Spindle and Rebecca Smith 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Electric utilities; 

Climate change; 
Solar energy; 
Wind power; 

Alternative energy sources; 

Renewable resources 


Location 	Texas 
Title 	Texas' Latest Gusher: Wind and Sun --- Lone Star state sees surge in renewable energy after 
markets deregulated 

Author 	Spindle, Bill; Smith, Rebecca 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.1 
Publication year 	2016 
Publication date 	Aug 29, 2016 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1814537191  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1814537191?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 130 of 376 


Business News: Glencore Investors Push Savings --- Shareholders want Glasenberg to hold off on buying, hope to see more cost savings 
Patterson, Scott; MacDonald, Alex.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]18 Aug 2016: B.3. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Business+News%3A+Glencore+Investors+Push+Savings+--­+Shareholders+want+Glasenberg+to+hold+off+on+buying%2C+hope+to+see+more+cost+savings&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2016-08­18&volume=&issue=&spage=B.3&au=Patterson%2C+Scott%3BMacDonald%2C+Alex&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Mr. Glasenberg spent much of the past decade as the commodities industry's biggest deal maker, snapping up coal, copper and gold mines in places such as East Africa, South America and Australia. 

Full Text 
LONDON -- A year of debt cuts, asset sales and rising commodity prices have pulled Glencore PLC back from the brink of crisis. Now, the mining and trading giant's shareholders 
have a new concern: that Chief Executive Ivan Glasenberg might return to his free-spending ways. 
Mr. Glasenberg spent much of the past decade as the commodities industry's biggest deal maker, snapping up coal, copper and gold mines in places such as East Africa, South 
America and Australia. 

After a mounting debt pile and sagging commodities prices sent Glencore shares tumbling last year -- the stock price fell 29% on a single day, Sept. 28 in London -- investors pressured Mr. Glasenberg to slash borrowing and unload unprofitable mines. He suspended the company's dividend, laid off workers to cut costs, and trimmed the company's debt load to more sustainable levels, investors say. 
With shares up about 180% since the free fall, Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore recently emerged as a contender in bidding for several big properties, including Australian coal 
assets that Rio Tinto PLC and Anglo American PLC were looking to sell, say people familiar with the sales talks. 
Investors say Mr. Glasenberg has work to do before he can responsibly start buying, and are hoping to hear more about cost savings than new spending when the company 
reports earnings on Aug. 24. 

"First, we have to finish the deleveraging, then we have to restore the dividend," said David Herro, a fund manager for Harris Associates LP who controls about 6% of Glencore's 
stock, valued at about $2 billion. 
Mr. Herro snapped up billions of dollars of Glencore's stock last autumn as it fell, and said Glencore should consider whether stock buybacks make more sense than deals. 
A spokesman for Glencore declined to comment. 

Mr. Glasenberg transformed Glencore from a trading house into one of the world's biggest miners, with deals like the $29.5 billion acquisition of coal miner Xstrata in 2013. 
But his big bets fell flat over the past two years, when commodities prices crashed. Coal, despite a rebound this year, remains under pressure due in part to world-wide 
attempts to curb global warming by reducing carbon emissions from coal-burning power plants. 

Glencore lost $5 billion in 2015, and its stock remains more than 60% below its 2011 offering price. 

There is little question Glencore's situation has improved from a year ago, when Mr. Glasenberg was fending off investor fears that his mining and trading house was a debt-
bloated powder keg on the verge of exploding. 
At the end of 2015, Glencore's net debt -- which doesn't include billions of dollars of borrowing that fuels its trading business -- had dipped to $25.9 billion from $29.6 billion 

midyear. Glencore says it plans to reduce the debt load to $17 billion to $18 billion by the end of 2016. 
"Management is doing exactly what they should be doing," said Harris Associates' Mr. Herro. 
Last week, Glencore reported lower copper, coal and zinc output in the second quarter, compared with a year earlier, due largely to voluntary mine closures. 
Charl Malan, a portfolio manager for Van Eck Global, which holds roughly $200 million of Glencore stock, said the company should continue cutting debt and return cash to 

shareholders before looking for new investments. He said Glencore should restore the dividend by sometime next year, depending on commodity prices. 
"Management is not going to be driven by, 'I want more coal, I want more copper,'" Mr. Malan said. "Management will be driven by what is best for shareholders." 
Credit: By Scott Patterson and Alex MacDonald 

(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Debt restructuring;  
Mining industry  
People  Glasenberg, Ivan  
Company / organization  Name: Glencore PLC  
NAICS: 211111, 212210, 212234, 311314  
Title  Business News: Glencore Investors Push Savings --- Shareholders want Glasenberg to hold off  
on buying, hope to see more cost savings  
Author  Patterson, Scott; MacDonald, Alex  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.3  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Aug 18, 2016  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1812102878  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1812102878?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 131 of 376 
Election 2016: Nominee Pledges to Roll Back Energy Regulations 
Harder, Amy; Puko, Timothy; Miller, John W.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]09 Aug 2016: A.4. 

Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Election+2016%3A+Nominee+Pledges+to+Roll+Back+Energy+Regulati 08­09&volume=&issue=&spage=A.4&au=Harder%2C+Amy%3BPuko%2C+Timothy%3BMiller%2C+John+W&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:d 

Abstract 
Environmental Protection Agency rules that cut carbon emissions from power plants, known as the Clean Power Plan; the EPA's Waters of the U.S. rule, which brings more water bodies under federal protection; and an Interior Department moratorium on new coal leasing on federal lands. 

Full Text 
Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump promised Monday to repeal a host of energy and environmental regulations, save the coal industry and lift restrictions on energy sales. 
But many of those promises may be challenging to fulfill. A new president cannot easily cancel most regulations, which require a lengthy, exacting process to enact or withdraw. 
More broadly, many of the coal industry's woes are driven by world-wide market trends that are likely to persist. 
Mr. Trump, addressing a business-friendly audience at the Detroit Economic Club, painted a vision of a restored energy future. "We will put our coal miners and our steelworkers back to work, where they want to be," Mr. Trump said. 
In an outline accompanying the speech, Mr. Trump cited several targets: Environmental Protection Agency rules that cut carbon emissions from power plants, known as the Clean Power Plan; the EPA's Waters of the U.S. rule, which brings more water bodies under federal protection; and an Interior Department moratorium on new coal leasing on federal lands. 
But few finalized regulations have ever been successfully undone by a succeeding administration, Republican or Democratic. And those that did fall were far less politically charged than the Obama administration's regulations at issue today. 
Robert Murray, the controlling owner of the nation's largest privately held coal miner and a Trump supporter, called Mr. Trump's promises "a very good start." 
The chief executive of Murray Energy Corp. has been an outspoken opponent of the Obama administration, accusing the executive branch of rampaging over fossil fuels. "New regulations on coal, they're coming out faster than we can read them," he said, adding that market forces have also not been kind to his sector. 
"We need to develop all the energy we can and then use it, whatever the low-cost energy is," Mr. Murray said. 
Mr. Trump also said Monday he would cancel the Paris climate agreement. While Mr. Trump can't cancel the entire deal himself, he could withdraw the U.S. from it, which could be a deal-breaking blow to the agreement given the high-profile role of the U.S. 
The regulation Mr. Trump might find easiest to undo is the Interior Department's moratorium on new coal leasing, because it isn't a formal regulation but the department's current policy. 
Credit: By Amy Harder, Timothy Puko and John W. Miller 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Environmental regulations; 

Coal mining; 

Climate change; 
Coal industry; 

Energy policy 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Trump, Donald J 
Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 

NAICS: 924110 


Title  Election 2016: Nominee Pledges to Roll Back Energy Regulations  
Author  Harder, Amy; Puko, Timothy; Miller, John W  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.4  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Aug 9, 2016  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1809922040  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1809922040?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 132 of 376 


Long-Sought U.S. Port Plans Get Derailed --- Coal glut and worries about pollution discourage new West Coast projects 
Puko, Timothy; Phillips, Erica E.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]02 Aug 2016: B.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Long-Sought+U.S.+Port+Plans+Get+Derailed+--­+Coal+glut+and+worries+about+pollution+discourage+new+West+Coast+projects&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2016-08­02&volume=&issue=&spage=B.1&au=Puko%2C+Timothy%3BPhillips%2C+Erica+E&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Arch Coal Inc., the nation's second-largest coal producer after Peabody Energy Corp., sold a 38% stake in Longview-Wash.-based Millennium Bulk Terminals in June, four years after it had originally hoped to start sending coal from the port. 

Full text 
Western coal producers once saw exports to Asia as their future. For many, that dream is fading. 
A global glut has flooded overseas markets that were once expected to buy coal produced along a belt stretching from Utah to Montana that includes the Powder River Basin. The industry is also losing long-sought shipping outlets on the West Coast, where local communities have blocked construction of coal terminals amid concerns about climate change and pollution. 
Of seven West Coast export terminals proposed in the past five years, which combined could have handled over 125 million tons of coal annually, not one has opened. 
The coal companies' defeats -- under pressure from environmental groups -- show the limits of miners' sway over authorities as cheaper natural gas and tighter emissions standards have slashed demand for the fuel. With three of the four largest U.S. producers in bankruptcy and others hampered by debt, the retrenchment has been swift. 
"It looks discouraging," said Oystein Mathisen, president of Frontier International Shipping Corp., a ship brokerage. Mr. Mathisen is abandoning plans to hire staff and charter more ships to carry coal to China, Japan and Korea. "The lobbying against it is very strong. And politically it's nothing popular at all." 
Late last month, the city council in Oakland, Calif., gave final approval to a rule blocking coal exports through a new terminal on a decommissioned army base. The future of the $500 million project -- backed in part by $53 million of Utah tax revenues -- is uncertain, according to a spokesman for the Oakland Global Trade and Logistics Center project. 
Arch Coal Inc., the nation's second-largest coal producer after Peabody Energy Corp., sold a 38% stake in Longview-Wash.-based Millennium Bulk Terminals in June, four years after it had originally hoped to start sending coal from the port. Arch paid $25 million for the stake and received no cash compensation for giving it up, though the company acquired the right to ship coal through the terminal. 
Cloud Peak Energy Inc., the country's No. 3 coal producer, said last month it was exploring "all options," including a sale of its stake in a planned terminal about 100 miles north of Seattle, after the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in May blocked the project. The Army Corps said the terminal would have infringed on the fishing rights of an American Indian group, the Lummi Nation. 
Oregon denied a permit for a coal-export facility on the Columbia River in 2014, and another large terminal in Washington has been under review by the Army Corps for four years. 
Environmentalists have cheered the rejections. "Communities aren't going to let this stuff get developed in their backyards," said Cesia Kearns, Western region director of the Sierra Club's "Beyond Coal" campaign, which has been fighting against the development of coal terminals on the West Coast. 
As China's growth slowed recently, U.S. producers were undercut by cheaper coal from Australia and Indonesia. 
Western U.S. exports fell to 306,714 tons in the first quarter from a peak of 2.7 million tons in the second quarter of 2014, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration. Miners have struggled to pay debt used to buy billions of dollars in mines that were supposed to feed Asia. 
Even with functioning export terminals, today's international prices would barely cover the companies' shipping costs. "If one of these ports got approved tomorrow, they could have the option of losing $10 a ton selling more coal," said Evan Kurtz, analyst at Morgan Stanley. 
U.S. miners need to set aside their export plans and address their financial problems, said Matthew Gray, a researcher at Highland Capital Management LP, which manages $17 
billion in assets, including Arch debt. 
Coal companies publicly say they haven't given up on exports. Cloud Peak expects Asian customers to start buying U.S. coal again as developing economies build more coal-
fired power plants, said Tom Nelson, the company's vice president of sales and marketing. Several companies maintain rights to ship coal through these terminals. 

"We remain supportive of the [Millennium] project and will continue to engage with [its owner]," a spokeswoman for Arch wrote in an email. 

However, an executive at one of the miners involved one of the Washington terminals said the projects are "not dead, but barely on life support." Meanwhile, the biggest terminal on Canada's West Coast has spare capacity now that exports have slowed and could handle an uptick. Credit: By Timothy Puko and Erica E. Phillips 

(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. Database US Newsstream 
Details  
Subject  Coal industry;  
Ports;  
Air pollution  
Location  United States--US  
Title  Long-Sought U.S. Port Plans Get Derailed --- Coal glut and worries about pollution discourage  
new West Coast projects  
Author  Puko, Timothy; Phillips, Erica E  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.1  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Aug 2, 2016  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1807981511  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1807981511?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  

document 133 of 376 


Business News: New Life for Old Power Tech 
Smith, Rebecca.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]23 July 2016: B.4. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Business+News%3A+New+Life+for+Old+Power+Tech&title=Wall+Stree 07-23&volume=&issue=&spage=B.4&au=Smith%2C+Rebecca&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
[...]unlike fossil-fuel or nuclear plants -- which often take hours or even days to reach full output from a dead stop -- hydroelectric plants hit peak production in minutes, a big asset to grid operators trying to keep electric systems running smoothly. CMS Energy Corp., a Michigan-based utility, now sees its Ludington, Mich., pumped-storage facility on Lake Michigan as "truly, the crown jewel of power plants here," says plant manager Bill Schoenlein. 

Full Text 
Forget about Tesla Motors Inc.'s batteries: The hottest way to store energy in the electricity business today is a century-old technology that involves moving water to stash power. 
Known as pumped storage, the giant facilities push large volumes of water uphill when there is surplus electricity, and then let gravity move it back down through turbines to generate hydroelectric power when extra kilowatts are needed. 
Newer technologies for energy storage -- including batteries, flywheels, compressed air and ice -- are under development, but the proven, old-school solution of storing water as a proxy for power is attracting renewed respect from utilities and environmentalists aiming to fight climate change. It helps solve a big problem as power companies invest in renewable energy, which doesn't always produce electricity when it is most needed. 
California, for example, set a record for solar-power production in early July. But peak demand for electricity comes in the early evening, long after solar production has peaked. Pumped storage gives producers a way to bank energy for future use. 
"We're seeing just a huge resurgence of interest," says Jeff Leahey, deputy director of the National Hydropower Association. 
Renewable-energy sources produced 10% of the nation's power last year, and are growing so fast that they are now expected to overtake nuclear energy by 2021 and coal by 2030, according to the Energy Information Administration. Even at existing levels, excess renewable output is disrupting electricity markets, flooding the wires with power during certain times of day and sending wholesale power prices plunging. 
When PG&E Corp. and environmentalists brokered a deal last month to shut down the Diablo Canyon nuclear plant by 2025, green activists weren't just looking to close California's last remaining nuclear facility and replace it with renewable energy. They also wanted the nuclear plant's pumped-storage "battery pack" to be even more available for green energy. 
Known as the Helms Pumped Storage Plant, the facility built in 1985 consists of two reservoirs linked to a 1,200-megawatt hydroelectric powerhouse in the Sierra Nevada mountains. 
"I don't think people know what a big deal pumped storage is," says S. David Freeman,a former general manager of the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power who is a senior adviser to Friends of the Earth, one of the environmental groups involved in the deal. "It's by no means a futuristic thing. It's been around for decades." 
Helms is one of 42 pumped storage plants in the U.S. Combined, they have a capacity of 23,000 megawatts, equal to about 20 reactors, according to the Energy Department. That may nearly double in coming years: Proposals to add 18,000 megawattsof pumped-storage capacity are currently before the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. 
Pumped-storage facilities are expensive to build. Still, they remain the cheapest form of large-scale electricity storage according to the Energy Department, which estimates they make up about 99% of such storage world-wide. 
On the surface, pumped storage makes no sense -- there is a net loss of energy from moving water uphill and then generating power. It often takes five units of electricity to pump water that makes four units of power. 
But for decades, pumped storage was a cost-effective way to store surplus energy from nuclear plants -- which produce the same amount of electricity at all times of day -- and convert it into electricity for peak demand during the day. 
Now it is increasingly being used to even out peaks and valleys of renewable production. And unlike fossil-fuel or nuclear plants -- which often take hours or even days to reach full output from a dead stop -- hydroelectric plants hit peak production in minutes, a big asset to grid operators trying to keep electric systems running smoothly. 
CMS Energy Corp., a Michigan-based utility, now sees its Ludington, Mich., pumped-storage facility on Lake Michigan as "truly, the crown jewel of power plants here," says plant manager Bill Schoenlein. 
Built in the early 1970s as a sidekick to coal and nuclear plants, it is midway through an $800 million upgrade to boost production. It is helping integrate 14,000 megawatts of wind capacity into the electric grid from 15 states. 
Among the new pumped-storage projects is Eagle Crest, a proposed facility east of Palm Springs, Calif., that would use abandoned mining pits as reservoirs to hold water pulled from arsenic-laced aquifers. It was licensed by federal regulators in 2014 and is currently seeking financing and customers. 
Steve Lowe, president of Eagle Crest Energy Co., estimates he needs six years and $2 billion to get it built. He hopes it will serve as the battery pack for nearby wind turbines whose production peaks at night. NextEra Energy Inc. of Juno Beach, Fla., the biggest owner of renewable generation in the U.S., is a minority investor. 
A new role for pumped storage is winning it new allies. The Natural Resources Defense Council was created in 1970 to fight a pumped-storage proposal in New York. 
"Our views, over time, have become somewhat more nuanced," says Ralph Cavanagh, co-director of NRDC's energy program. "We still don't want it at a place of breathtaking beauty like overlooking the Hudson River, but we're open to it at other sites, particularly ones that are already degraded." 
Credit: By Rebecca Smith 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Environmentalists; 
Hydroelectric plants; 
Alternative energy sources 


Title 	Business News: New Life for Old Power Tech 
Author 	Smith, Rebecca 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	B.4 
Publication year 	2016 
Publication date 	Jul 23, 2016 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 	00999660 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	News 
ProQuest document ID 	1806203827 
Document URL 	https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1806203827?accountid=14902 
Copyright 	(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further 
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Last updated 	2017-11-23 
Database 	US Newsstream 
document 134 of 376 


WSJ Exxon Touts Carbon Tax to Rivals --- Advocacy of measure reflects growing pressure to address climate change 
Harder, Amy; Olson, Bradley.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]01 July 2016: B.6. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=WSJ+Exxon+Touts+Carbon+Tax+to+Rivals+--­+Advocacy+of+measure+reflects+growing+pressure+to+address+climate+change&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2016-07­01&volume=&issue=&spage=B.6&au=Harder%2C+Amy%3BOlson%2C+Bradley&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Exxon Mobil Corp. is ramping up its lobbying of other energy companies to support a carbon tax, marking a shift in the oil giant's approach to climate change as the industry faces growing pressure to address the politically charged issue. 

Full Text 
Exxon Mobil Corp. is ramping up its lobbying of other energy companies to support a carbon tax, marking a shift in the oil giant's approach to climate change as the industry faces growing pressure to address the politically charged issue. 
Exxon's official position has long been the same -- a carbon tax is the best way to address the risks of warming temperatures -- but it has done little to actively advocate for that goal in recent years. Lately, Exxon has been making the case with its U.S. counterparts to support a carbon tax, arguing that the industry must not oppose all climate policies, according to people familiar with Exxon's thinking. 
Top Exxon officials have been more vocal about their support for a carbon tax and have met with Capitol Hill offices about related legislation, according to the company's recent lobby disclosure forms. 
For the past six months, Exxon has been asserting its position more in meetings within trade associations, including the American Petroleum Institute and American Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers, according to multiple reports from people who have attended meetings with Exxon officials. 
"Of the policy options being considered by governments, we believe a revenue-neutral carbon tax is the best," Suzanne McCarron, the company's vice president of public and government affairs, wrote in May in the Dallas Morning News. 
A straightforward carbon tax that is revenue-neutral -- meaning other taxes should be lowered to offset the impact -- is far preferable to the patchwork of current and potential regulations on the state, federal and international levels, according to Exxon spokesman Alan Jeffers. 
Mr. Jeffers said Exxon's position hasn't changed and pointed to a recent House vote on a resolution condemning a carbon tax and the global climate deal in Paris agreed to last December as reasons for the increased debate within the industry. 
A carbon tax would put a price on each ton of carbon emitted. Where in the production and consumption process the tax would be levied depends on individual proposals. 
"Previously Exxon's positioning on a carbon tax had been passive -- 'Hey, we're not loving it, but we're not going to get in the way of it,' " said Michael McKenna, president of the energy lobbying firm MWR Strategies, whose clients include oil and refining companies, but not Exxon. "In just the last six months, there's been an uptick in how they are asserting themselves in meetings about how to address this issue." 
Exxon, the world's largest publicly owned oil company, arguably faces more pressure than other firms to show concern about climate change. At least two Democratic state attorneys general are investigating whether the oil giant has conspired to cover up what it knows about the impact of global warming. 
The U.S. Virgin Islands attorney general agreed to withdraw its subpoena, according to a legal filing Wednesday. Exxon is challenging these investigations and has described them as politically motivated attacks that violate its constitutional rights. 
In actively pushing for a carbon tax behind the scenes, Exxon becomes the first major American energy company to move closer to the positions of European energy firms, including Royal Dutch Shell PLC and BP PLC, which have publicly advocated for a price on carbon. 
Congress has made it clear it is unlikely to consider a carbon tax soon, especially under Republican control. But some in the energy industry believe a serious debate on additional climate measures isn't far off, especially if Democrat Hillary Clinton wins the White House in November. 
The House vote in early June to condemn a carbon tax accentuated a widening rift within the industry over how, or whether, to engage on climate policy. The split is pitting smaller companies, especially domestic refiners, against multinational and European firms. 
One senior U.S. oil executive said Exxon, like some other oil and gas companies, could also have a financial motive for supporting a carbon tax. Such a tax would make coal more expensive compared with natural gas. Exxon, beyond its oil business, is the U.S.'s largest natural-gas producer. 
Mr. Jeffers, the Exxon spokesman, said his company has invested in gas in anticipation of climate policies that make coal more expensive. 
Few, if any, U.S. companies other than Exxon have called for a carbon tax, and many oppose any plan designed to cut emissions. Chevron Corp. CEO John Watson, for example, is one of several outspoken opponents of a carbon tax. 
Exxon's shift is unfolding against the backdrop of a landmark deal to cut greenhouse gas emissions struck by roughly 200 nations last December in Paris. Energy companies are also facing increasing pressure from federal regulators, and their own shareholders, to disclose potential business risks from the global efforts to reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions. Exxon shareholders in May narrowly voted down a resolution calling for a stress test to determine the risk that efforts to curb climate change pose to its business. 
Exxon first publicly supported a carbon tax in 2009, presenting it as preferable to cap-and-trade, a market-based system for controlling carbon emissions that the Democratic-controlled Congress then appeared ready to enact. Cap-and-trade died in the Senate, the Republicans later captured Congress, and President Barack Obama has since pursued regulations to cut carbon emissions instead. 
Some advocates of strong climate policy are skeptical Exxon's shift signals a deeper change. "We've seen so little movement out of any of their lobbying front groups," said Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse (D., R.I.), who introduced a bill last summer to impose a carbon tax. The measure hasn't advanced in the Senate. 
Mr. Whitehouse's staff recently met with Exxon lobbyists, but the senator said, "The meeting was more just an exploratory feeler to see about further conversations." 
Write to Amy Harder at amy.harder@wsj.com and Bradley Olson at Bradley.Olson@wsj.com 
(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: Mission Accomplished for Climate Activists " -- WSJ July 13, 2016) 
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service 
Credit: By Amy Harder and Bradley Olson 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Economic models; 

Carbon; 
Meetings; 
Environmental policy; 
Climate change; 
Energy industry; 

Natural gas utilities; 
Environmental tax 


Company / organization 	Name: Exxon Mobil Corp 

NAICS: 447110, 211111; 


Name: American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers NAICS: 813910; 
Name: Dallas Morning News NAICS: 511110; 
Name: American Petroleum Institute NAICS: 813910, 541820 
Title 	WSJ Exxon Touts Carbon Tax to Rivals --- Advocacy of measure reflects growing pressure to 
address climate change 

Author 	Harder, Amy; Olson, Bradley 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	B.6 
Publication year 	2016 
Publication date 	Jul 1, 2016 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 	00999660 
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1803263313  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1803263313?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 135 of 376 


Exxon Touts Carbon Tax to Rivals --- Advocacy of measure reflects growing pressure to address climate change 
Harder, Amy; Olson, Bradley.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]01 July 2016: B.6. [Duplicate] 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Exxon+Touts+Carbon+Tax+to+Rivals+--­+Advocacy+of+measure+reflects+growing+pressure+to+address+climate+change&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2016-07­01&volume=&issue=&spage=B.6&au=Harder%2C+Amy%3BOlson%2C+Bradley&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Exxon Mobil Corp. is ramping up its lobbying of other energy companies to support a carbon tax, marking a shift in the oil giant's approach to climate change as the industry faces growing pressure to address the politically charged issue. 

Full Text 
Exxon Mobil Corp. is ramping up its lobbying of other energy companies to support a carbon tax, marking a shift in the oil giant's approach to climate change as the industry faces growing pressure to address the politically charged issue. 
Exxon's official position has long been the same--a carbon tax is the best way to address the risks of warming temperatures--but it has done little to actively advocate for that goal in recent years. Lately, Exxon has been making the case with its U.S. counterparts to support a carbon tax, arguing that the industry must not oppose all climate policies, according to people familiar with Exxon's thinking. 
Top Exxon officials have been more vocal about their support for a carbon tax and have met with Capitol Hill offices about related legislation, according to the company's recent lobby disclosure forms. 
For the past six months, Exxon has been asserting its position more in meetings within trade associations, including the American Petroleum Institute and American Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers, according to multiple reports from people who have attended meetings with Exxon officials. 
"Of the policy options being considered by governments, we believe a revenue-neutral carbon tax is the best," Suzanne McCarron, the company's vice president of public and government affairs, wrote in May in the Dallas Morning News. 
A straightforward carbon tax that is revenue-neutral--meaning other taxes should be lowered to offset the impact--is far preferable to the patchwork of current and potential regulations on the state, federal and international levels, according to Exxon spokesman Alan Jeffers. 
Mr. Jeffers said Exxon's position hasn't changed and pointed to a recent House vote on a resolution condemning a carbon tax and the global climate deal in Paris agreed to last December as reasons for the increased debate within the industry. 
A carbon tax would put a price on each ton of carbon emitted. Where in the production and consumption process the tax would be levied depends on individual proposals. 
"Previously Exxon's positioning on a carbon tax had been passive--'Hey, we're not loving it, but we're not going to get in the way of it,' " said Michael McKenna, president of the energy lobbying firm MWR Strategies, whose clients include oil and refining companies, but not Exxon. "In just the last six months, there's been an uptick in how they are asserting themselves in meetings about how to address this issue." 
Exxon, the world's largest publicly owned oil company, arguably faces more pressure than other firms to show concern about climate change. At least two Democratic what it knows about the impact of global warming. 
The U.S. Virgin Islands attorney general agreed to withdraw its subpoena, according to a legal filing Wednesday. Exxon is challenging these investigations and has described them as politically motivated attacks that violate its constitutional rights. 
In actively pushing for a carbon tax behind the scenes, Exxon becomes the first major American energy company to move closer to the positions of European energy firms, including Royal Dutch Shell PLC and BP PLC, which have publicly advocated for a price on carbon. 
Congress has made it clear it is unlikely to consider a carbon tax soon, especially under Republican control. But some in the energy industry believe a serious debate on additional climate measures isn't far off, especially if Democrat Hillary Clinton wins the White House in November. 
The House vote in early June to condemn a carbon tax accentuated a widening rift within the industry over how, or whether, to engage on climate policy. The split is pitting smaller companies, especially domestic refiners, against multinational and European firms. 
One senior U.S. oil executive said Exxon, like some other oil and gas companies, could also have a financial motive for supporting a carbon tax. Such a tax would make coal more expensive compared with natural gas. Exxon, beyond its oil business, is the U.S.'s largest natural-gas producer. 
Mr. Jeffers, the Exxon spokesman, said his company has invested in gas in anticipation of climate policies that make coal more expensive. 
Few, if any, U.S. companies other than Exxon have called for a carbon tax, and many oppose any plan designed to cut emissions. Chevron Corp. CEO John Watson, for example, . 
Exxon's shift is unfolding against the backdrop of a landmark deal to cut greenhouse gas emissions struck by roughly 200 nations last December in Paris. Energy companies are also facing increasing pressure from federal regulators, and their own shareholders, to disclose potential business risks from the global efforts to reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions. Exxon shareholders in May narrowly that efforts to curb climate change pose to its business. 
Exxon first publicly supported a carbon tax in 2009, presenting it as preferable to cap-and-trade, a market-based system for controlling carbon emissions that the Democratic-controlled Congress then appeared ready to enact. Cap-and-trade died in the Senate, the Republicans later captured Congress, and President Barack Obama has since pursued regulations to cut carbon emissions instead. 
Some advocates of strong climate policy are skeptical Exxon's shift signals a deeper change. "We've seen so little movement out of any of their lobbying front groups," said Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse (D., R.I.), who introduced a bill last summer to impose a carbon tax. The measure hasn't advanced in the Senate. 
Mr. Whitehouse's staff recently met with Exxon lobbyists, but the senator said, "The meeting was more just an exploratory feeler to see about further conversations." 
Write to Amy Harder at amy.harder@wsj.com and Bradley Olson at 
Credit: By Amy Harder and Bradley Olson 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Carbon; 
Environmental tax 


Company / organization 	Name: Exxon Mobil Corp 

NAICS: 447110, 211111 


Title 	Exxon Touts Carbon Tax to Rivals --- Advocacy of measure reflects growing pressure to address 
climate change 

Author 	Harder, Amy; Olson, Bradley 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	B.6 
Publication year 	2016 
Publication date 	Jul 1, 2016 
Section 	Business & Tech 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 	00999660 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	News 
ProQuest document ID 	1800595819 
Document URL 	https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1800595819?accountid=14902 
Copyright 	(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further 
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Last updated 2017-11-23 
Database US Newsstream 
document 136 of 376 


Obama's Climate Policy Is a Hot Mess 
Lomborg, Bjorn.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]01 July 2016: A.11. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Obama%27s+Climate+Policy+Is+a+Hot+Mess&title=Wall+Street+Jo 07-01&volume=&issue=&spage=A.11&au=Lomborg%2C+Bjorn&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
When President Obama flew to Ottawa, Canada, on Wednesday to meet with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto, promoting their climate-change policies was near the top of the agenda. "The Paris Agreement was a turning point for our planet," the leaders' joint statement said, referring to the climate pact signed with fanfare in April by nearly 200 nations. "North America has the capacity, resources and the moral imperative to show strong leadership building on the Paris Agreement and promoting its early entry into force." 
Attracting rather less attention than the Ottawa meeting was a June 22 hearing on Capitol Hill. before the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology, Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Gina McCarthy extolled the Paris Agreement as an "incredible achievement." But when repeatedly asked, she wouldn't explain exactly how much this treaty would actually cut global temperatures. 
The Paris Agreement will cost a fortune but do little to reduce global warming. In a peer-reviewed article published in Global Policy this year, I looked at the widely hailed major policies that Paris Agreement signatories pledged to undertake and found that they will have a negligible temperature impact. I used the same climate-prediction model that the United Nations uses. 
First, consider the Obama administration's signature climate policy, the Clean Power Plan. The U.N.'s model shows that it will accomplish almost nothing. Even if the policy withstands current legal challenges and its cuts are totally implemented--not for the 14 years that the Paris agreement lasts, but for the rest of the century--the Clean Power Plan would reduce temperatures by 0.023 degrees Fahrenheit by 2100. 
President Obama has made grander promises of future carbon cuts, beyond the plan's sweeping restrictions on the power industry, but these are only vaguely outlined now. In the unlikely event that all of these extra cuts also happen, and are adhered to throughout the rest of the century, the combined reduction in temperatures would be 0.057 degrees. In other words, if the U.S. delivers for the whole century on the very ambitious Obama rhetoric, it would postpone global warming by about eight months at the end of the century. 
Or consider the Paris Agreement promises from the entire world using the reduction estimate from the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the organization responsible for the Paris summit. The U.N.'s model reveals a temperature reduction by the end of the century of only 0.08 degrees Fahrenheit. If we generously assume that the promised cuts for 2030 are not only met (which itself would be a U.N. first), but sustained throughout the rest of the century, temperatures in 2100 would drop by 0.3 degrees--the equivalent of postponing warming by less than four years at the end of the century. A cut of 0.3 degrees matches the finding of a Massachusetts Institute of Technology analysis of the Paris Agreement last year. 
The costs of the Paris climate pact are likely to run to $1 trillion to $2 trillion annually throughout the rest of the century, using the best estimates from the Stanford Energy Modeling Forum and the Asia Modeling Exercise. Spending more than $100 trillion for such a feeble temperature reduction by the end of the century does not make sense. 
Some Paris Agreement supporters defend it by claiming that its real impact on temperatures will be much more significant than the U.N. model predicts. This requires some mental gymnastics and heroic assumptions. The group doing climate modeling for the U.S. State Department assumes that without the Paris Agreement emissions would be much higher than under any realistic scenario. With such an unrealistically pessimistic baseline, they can then magically show that the agreement will cut temperatures by 1.8 degrees Fahrenheit--with about 1.5 degrees of the drop coming from a reduction of these fantasy carbon emissions. 
The Climate Action Tracker, widely cited by Paris Agreement fans, predicts a temperature reduction of 1.6 degrees by the end of the century. But that model is based heavily on the assumption that even stronger climate policies will be adopted in the future--98% of the assumed reductions come after the current Paris Agreement promises to expire in 2030. 
Even this wishful thinking won't achieve anything close to the 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) reduction that has become the arbitrary but widely adopted benchmark for what will be essential to avoid the worst effects of global warming. 
The Paris Agreement is the wrong solution to a real problem. We should focus more on green-energy research and development, like that promoted by Bill Gates and the Breakthrough Coalition. Mr. Gates has announced that private investors are committing $7 billion for clean energy R&D, while the White House will double its annual $5 billion green innovation fund. Sadly, this sorely needed investment is a fraction of the cost of the same administration's misguided carbon-cut policies. 
Instead of rhetoric and ever-larger subsidies of today's inefficient green technologies, those who want to combat climate change should focus on dramatically boosting innovation to drive down the cost of future green energy. 
The U.S. has already shown the way. With its relentless pursuit of fracking driving down the cost of natural gas, America has made a momentous switch from coal to gas that has done more to drive down carbon-dioxide emissions than any recent climate policy. Turns out that those who gathered in Paris, France, could learn a little from Paris, Texas. 
Mr. Lomborg, president of the Copenhagen Consensus Center, is the author of "Cool It" (Knopf, 2007) and "Smartest Targets for the World" (Copenhagen Consensus, 2015). 
Credit: By Bjorn Lomborg 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject  Environmental policy;  
Climate change  
People  Obama, Barack  
Title  Obama's Climate Policy Is a Hot Mess  
Author  Lomborg, Bjorn  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.11  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Jul 1, 2016  
Section  Opinion  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1800549016  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1800549016?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 137 of 376 


Climate Denial Finally Pays Off 
Jenkins, Holman W, Jr.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]29 June 2016: A.11. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Climate+Denial+Finally+Pays+Off&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=0 06-29&volume=&issue=&spage=A.11&au=Jenkins%2C+Holman+W%2C+Jr&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
No contributor has written more frequently on the subject of climate change on these pages--45 times over the past 20 years according to the "study" behind a recent series of ads (at $27,309 a pop) assailing the Journal's editorial page for its climate coverage. 
Yet how ploddingly conventional my views have been: I've written that evidence of climate change is not evidence of what causes climate change. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change agrees, in its latest report estimating with less than 100% confidence that a human role accounts for half the warming between 1951 and 2010. 
I've written that it would be astonishing if human activity had no impact, but the important questions are how and how much. The IPCC agrees, estimating that a doubling of atmospheric CO2 from pre-industrial times would hike temperatures between 1.5 degrees and 4.5 degrees (Celsius), notably an increase in the range of uncertainty since its last report. 
I've said science has been unable to discern signal from noise in the hunt for man-made warming. Yup, that's why the IPCC relies on computer simulations. Indeed, the most telling words in its latest are a question: "Are climate models getting better, and how would we know?" 
I've said it's difficult to justify action on cost-benefit grounds. The Obama administration agrees, acknowledging that its coal plans will cost many billions but have no meaningful impact on climate even a century from now. 
So how many columns out of 45 from the Partnership for Responsible Growth, the new group paying for the Journal-baiting ad? , describing the superiority of a carbon tax, the option the Partnership exists to plump for, compared to other climate nostrums. 
Here's what else I've learned in 20 years. Many advocates of climate policy are ignoramuses on the subject of climate science, and nothing about the Partnership for Responsible Growth--founded by former Democratic congressman Walt Minnick plus a couple of big donors--breaks with this tradition. 
Only a nincompoop would treat a complex set of issues like human impact on climate as a binary "yes/no" question--as the Partnership and many climate policy promoters do. Only an idiot would ask an alleged "expert" what he knows without showing any curiosity about how he knows it--a practice routine among climate-advocating journalists. 
So Tom Gjelten, host of a recent of the Journal ad controversy, is completely satisfied when Matt Nisbet, a professor of communications studies at Northeastern University, explains, "On the fundamentals of climate science, there is absolutely no debates. The overwhelming majority of scientists . . . strongly agree that climate change is happening, that it's human-caused and that it's an urgent problem." 
Notice that he doesn't cite any science but an (undocumented) agreement of people who agree with him, while conflating three very different questions. 
To be sure, Prof. Nisbet then promptly covers his derrière and takes it all back, saying: "In the field, there is some disagreement on the pace of climate change, the severity, its specific impacts." 
By then the damage is done. The discussion proceeds on the basis that anybody who takes part in this disagreement about pace, severity and specific impacts is a denier and enemy of science. 
Here's what you also won't learn from most climate reporting: Climate models that predict significant warming presume natural feedbacks that magnify the impact of human-released carbon dioxide by 100% to 400%. Models that presume no dominant feedbacks see warming of only about one degree Celsius over the entire course of a doubling of atmospheric CO2. Who knows what future scientific advances will reveal, but models that assume minimal feedback are more consistent with the warming seen so far--and remember, we've been burning coal for 200 years and accumulating temperature records for longer than that. 
The U.S. political system gets a bad rap but has rationally concluded that it can't sell large costs on this evidence. More to the point, never has it been the case that major legislation or policy departures are adopted only when all opposition and dissent are silenced. The premise of the assault on Exxon, the Journal, other campaigns against "deniers," is worse than foolish. The climate crowd has turned to persecuting critics as a substitute for meaningful climate action because, as President Obama has acutely observed, voters won't support their efforts to jack up energy prices. 
Functionally, whatever advocates tell themselves, these attacks end up churning the waters and propagandizing for those niggling little things that actually can be enacted, having no impact on climate but lining the pockets of organized interests who return the favor with campaign donations. 
That's how our political system behaves, on climate and most other subjects--which perhaps explains why voters are so tired of the people who man our political system. 
Credit: By Holman W. Jenkins, Jr. 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject  Climate change  
Company / organization  Name:  Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change  
NAICS:  541712, 928120  

Title  Climate Denial Finally Pays Off  
Author  Jenkins, Holman W, Jr  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.11  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Jun 29, 2016  
column  Business World  
Section  Opinion  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1799975192  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1799975192?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 138 of 376 


BHP Keeps Faith in Coal Despite the Hard Times 
Hoyle, Rhiannon.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]22 June 2016: C.5. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=BHP+Keeps+Faith+in+Coal+Despite+the+Hard+Times&title=Wall+Stre 06-22&volume=&issue=&spage=C.5&au=Hoyle%2C+Rhiannon&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
BHP Billiton Ltd., the world's biggest mining company, on Tuesday sounded a bullish note on future coal demand and the company's role as a major exporter. 

Full Text 
SYDNEY -- Coal still has at least one major supporter amid the misery in a market strained by bankruptcies, mine closures and mass worker layoffs. 
BHP Billiton Ltd., the world's biggest mining company, on Tuesday sounded a bullish note on future coal demand and the company's role as a major exporter. In an investor briefing, it said the world's appetite for coking coal, used in steelmaking, and thermal coal, which is burned to generate electricity, will rise as developing economies demand more steel and energy. 
"We expect that thermal coal will remain front and center in Asia's energy portfolio into the foreseeable future because it is the cheapest and most readily available source for power generation," said Mike Henry, BHP's head of Australian mining. 
The miner said thermal-coal demand will rise 10% to 15% from 2015 levels by the mid-2020s, aided by robust buying in India and Southeast Asia, even as the fuel accounts for a declining share of global electricity generation. It expects demand for coking coal to be robust as well, as it predicts steel output in China won't peak until the middle of the next decade. 
This isn't a universally accepted view, even within the mining industry. Coal markets have been in decline since 2011, thanks to a global glut caused by supplies from new mines and expansions that were planned when prices were booming. Appetite from China, the main engine for coal demand in the 21st century, has ebbed as officials there work to curb industrial overcapacity and clean up polluted skies. 
Many miners, including Glencore PLC, the world's No. 1 thermal-coal shipper, have cut coal output or closed unprofitable mines. Others, including Peabody Energy Corp., the U.S.'s biggest coal miner, have filed for bankruptcy. 
Meanwhile, analysts project global oversupply will take several years to clear. 
Over the past five years, the value of thermal and coking coals has slid about 60% and 70%, respectively. The outlook has been muddied by evolving climate-change policies and doubts about how quickly China will restructure its economy and reduce air pollution. 
"There is a considerable degree of uncertainty about how global energy demand will evolve, and the further you look into the future, the greater that uncertainty becomes," said Alexandra Heath, the Reserve Bank of Australia's head of economic analysis, in a speech on Tuesday. "We do know the growth in energy demand over the past couple of decades is unlikely to be sustained, partly because the drivers of that growth are likely to diminish and partly because energy efficiency increases over time." 
She said coal's low cost and reliability should help support the market, but "demand for coal is not likely to increase significantly from current levels." 
For its part, BHP -- a major supplier of thermal coal and the world's No. 1 exporter of coking coal -- signaled it would stick by the beleaguered business and raise output by working the mines it runs harder. It also will consider buying rival mines or spending cash on new projects "when the time is right," Mr. Henry said. 
Credit: By Rhiannon Hoyle 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Commodity prices; 

Coal 


Classification 	3400: Investment analysis & personal finance 

9190: United States 


Title 	BHP Keeps Faith in Coal Despite the Hard Times 
Author 	Hoyle, Rhiannon 
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  C.5  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Jun 22, 2016  
column  Commodities  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1798613515  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1798613515?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 139 of 376 


Green Groups Ease Opposition To Nuclear Power 
Harder, Amy.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]17 June 2016: B.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Green+Groups+Ease+Opposition+To+Nuclear+Power&title=Wall+Street 06-17&volume=&issue=&spage=B.1&au=Harder%2C+Amy&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The change is lowering one of the biggest political hurdles facing the nuclear power industry in the U.S. and comes at a critical time, as several financially struggling reactors are set to shut down. "Because the historical context is that these groups were opposed to nuclear, their absence on the opposition front is noticed," said Joe Dominguez, executive vice president for governmental and regulatory affairs for Exelon Corp., the biggest owner of nuclear plants in the U.S. "I think it's pretty significant." 

Full Text 
Some of the U.S.'s most influential environmental groups are softening their longstanding opposition to nuclear power, marking a significant shift in the antinuclear movement as environmentalists' priority shifts to climate change. 
The change is lowering one of the biggest political hurdles facing the nuclear power industry in the U.S. and comes at a critical time, as several financially struggling reactors are set to shut down. 
"Because the historical context is that these groups were opposed to nuclear, their absence on the opposition front is noticed," said Joe Dominguez, executive vice president for governmental and regulatory affairs for Exelon Corp., the biggest owner of nuclear plants in the U.S. "I think it's pretty significant." 
Nuclear power, which emits no greenhouse gases, provides about 20% of U.S. electricity and 60% of carbon-free electricity, according to federal data. Pressed by cheap natural gas and state policies that favor renewables over nuclear power, roughly a dozen reactors are either poised to shut down in the coming years or have already. 
The Sierra Club, the country's oldest and largest environmental group, is debating whether to halt its longtime position in support of shuttering all existing nuclear-power plants earlier than required by their federal operating licenses. 
The environmental group's leaders see existing reactors as a bridge to renewable electricity and an alternative source of energy as the group campaigns to close coal and natural gas plants. 
The Environmental Defense Fund is similarly deciding to what extent it should adjust its policy, potentially lending its support to keeping open financially struggling reactors. 
In Illinois, the Natural Resources Defense Council, along with the Sierra Club and EDF, are among the advocacy groups working with Exelon and state lawmakers on a legislative deal that would reverse a decision the company made in early June to close two nuclear reactors in the next two years. 
The agreement would promote more energy efficiency and renewable energy while ensuring the reactors remain in operation by providing financial recognition for the zero-carbon electricity they produce. 
The shift in attitude, Mr. Dominguez said, has a clear impact on energy companies' bottom line because it "allows for agreements on statewide policies, whereas before I didn't think we could get there." 
Michael Brune, executive director of the Sierra Club, says his group is focusing most of its resources on closing coal plants and preventing the construction of new natural gas plants. 
"We're actively debating the timeline in which nuclear plants should be decommissioned as we reduce our reliance on coal and gas in the electric sector," he said. 
The shift is twofold. Some environmental groups that have in the past protested existing reactors are now at times staying on the sidelines. In other cases, such as the one in Illinois, environmentalists are working toward keeping reactors open. 
Very few new nuclear plants, meanwhile, are set to come online soon because of market conditions, so the debate has focused largely on the fate of existing reactors. Most major environmental groups remain opposed to creating new nuclear plants, instead preferring renewable electricity. 
Most environmentalists have long opposed nuclear power due to a host of concerns, including the risk of a catastrophic accident (a worry heightened by Japan's Fukushima disaster in 2011), unresolved questions about radioactive waste storage, the potential for weapons proliferation from the fuel and a preference for renewable energy such as solar and wind. 
In recent years, as climate change has climbed to the top of the agenda of nearly all major environmental groups, influential leaders in both the climate science and policy arenas have shifted positions. 
Many now back this carbon-free source of energy, especially the existing fleet of approximately 100 reactors at about 60 power plants, which provide a steady source of electricity compared with the intermittence of wind and solar. 
Michael Shellenberger, co-founder of the Breakthrough Institute, a progressive think tank, founded an organization in January called Environmental Progress whose initial mission is focused on backing nuclear power to address climate change. 
"If anything gives me hope in these dark times, it's that so many environmentalists are changing their minds about nuclear," said Mr. Shellenberger, who says he switched his position and began supporting nuclear power in 2011. "What was just a trickle of converters a few years ago has become a positive stampede." 
Some environmental groups, including Greenpeace, continue to actively fight to close existing nuclear plants, saying the environmental risks, from radiation emissions to waste disposal, far outweigh any climate benefit. That is prompting these groups to oppose deals like the one in Illinois. "Illinois should not be bailing out old and dangerous nuclear reactors just because they can't compete," said Jim Riccio, nuclear policy analyst for Greenpeace. 
After reactors, including two units of the San Onofre plant, closed in Southern California, and New England in 2013 and 2014, respectively, emissions in those regions rose after having declined for some time, according to data from nonprofit electricity transmission organizations. Regulators replaced those reactors with natural gas, which is often the cheapest option but emits carbon dioxide. 
Mr. Dominguez cited a December announcement by New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo in favor of the continued operation of upstate nuclear plants as symbolizing the new mood. "I think that was a really significant turning point," he said. 
(See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: The Sierra Club Still Opposes Nuclear Power" -- WSJ June 24, 2016) 
Credit: By Amy Harder 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Nuclear power plants; 

Environmentalists 


Location 	United States--US 
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Natural Resources Defense Council 813312;  
Name: NAICS:  Sierra Club 813312  

Title  Green Groups Ease Opposition To Nuclear Power  
Author  Harder, Amy  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.1  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Jun 17, 2016  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1797506767  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1797506767?accountid=14902  

Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 140 of 376 


To California's Insurance Regulator, Green Is Job One 
Jenkins, Holman W, Jr.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]11 June 2016: A.13. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=To+California%27s+Insurance+Regulator%2C+Green+Is+Job+One& 06-11&volume=&issue=&spage=A.13&au=Jenkins%2C+Holman+W%2C+Jr&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
[...]markets must take account of other pertinent facts, such as the world's still-growing appetite for fossil fuels, the fact that coal still accounts for 35% of U.S. electricity generation, the fact that politicians have received no mandate from voters to ban fossil fuels and seem unlikely to receive one. 

Full Text 
The problem of arbitrary, lawless, politicized power did not come into the world with the prospect of a Donald Trump presidency. President Obama has been found repeatedly by the courts to have acted outside the law. And if you make your living in the insurance business, Dave Jones, California's insurance commissioner, is the very model of how the administrative state, with its accrual of arbitrary, uncheckable power, can give rise to political agendas masquerading as routine administrative acts. 
Mr. Jones, after jetting off to the Paris climate conference in December, has been issuing a remarkable series of demands to insurance companies that do business in California. He wants an annual accounting of their investment holdings in companies that derive 30% or more of revenue from fossil fuels. Mr. Jones also specifically "requests" that they dump their coal holdings or explain why they won't. 
"Divestiture is voluntary," his missive adds, but "companies that decline to divest will be publicly identified" and subjected to "examinations" due to the "risk that coal assets will become 'Stranded Assets.'" 
Smacking of the rubber hose, insurers are also required to sign a "Pledge to Refrain from Future Investments in Thermal Coal," indicating "Yes/No." 
Insurers gripe loudly, off the record. On the record, a published note by Lisa Gilbreath of the Dentons law firm in April calls the moves "unprecedented," and adds, "insurance companies will have to weigh the . . . potential public relations fallout that comes with appearing on the Commissioner's 'pro-coal' list." 
Mr. Jones primly insists that he is acting "entirely within my authority as insurance commissioner." He proceeds from an apparent assumption that markets somehow overlook the climate-change debate and don't require stock and bondholders to be properly compensated for the regulatory risk. 
His talk of "stranded assets" is directly lifted from a statement by the Bank of England's Mark Carney, who ingenuously warned last year that fossil-fuel reserves in the ground could become worthless under future regulatory action. Which hardly needed saying: All investments are subject to the uncertainties of government action. But markets must take account of other pertinent facts, such as the world's still-growing appetite for fossil fuels, the fact that coal still accounts for 35% of U.S. electricity generation, the fact that politicians have received no mandate from voters to ban fossil fuels and seem unlikely to receive one. 
A lawyer practicing in the field says Mr. Jones has been "very coy" about linking his demands to his office's legitimate interest in insurer solvency, but hasn't shrunk from implying in press statements that he's leading the fight against climate change itself. 
Still, the lawyer expects his clients to knuckle under because California is the nation's biggest insurance market and because Mr. Jones "has power over a lot of things that are important to them." 
The state's insurance commissioner, in case you haven't guessed, is an elective office. Mr. Jones already has announced plans to run for California attorney general in 2018. He will be aiming to fill the seat that Kamala Harris hopes to vacate for a U.S. Senate seat this fall, after her own yeoman work flogging an anti-Exxon crusade. 
Mr. Jones is obviously exploiting his authority as insurance commissioner to flaunt some leg for Tom Steyer and other California green billionaires generous with a campaign check. For insurers, complying with Mr. Jones's information demands is costly enough; hardly concealed is the regulatory threat behind his "voluntary" divestment demand. In the grip of Stockholm syndrome, the Association of California Insurance Companies bleated weakly that members "must retain the freedom to manage their investments," but added, "We appreciate that the commissioner's approach avoids overly restrictive mandates." 
Worrisome for anybody who cares about the rule of law is Mr. Jones's apparent insouciance as he goes about misusing his office. In a better America, insurance executives wouldn't be racing effectively to sacrifice their investment returns as a contribution to his future political campaigns; they'd be consulting their lawyers and studying the California Administrative Procedure Act, which requires new regulations to be "clear, necessary and legally valid." Legally valid means not spontaneously generated out of a regulator's hip pocket to serve his personal ambitions. 
Insurers that do business in California do business elsewhere, by the way, so Mr. Jones has made himself regulator of assets that back up the claims of policyholders far beyond California. One would hope other states' insurance commissioners would be alarmed at his political showboating, though maybe they will mostly be alarmed that they didn't think of it first. 
(See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: Insurance, Not Politics, Should Be Regulator's Job" -- WSJ June 21, 2016) 
Credit: By Holman W. Jenkins, Jr. 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Fossil fuels;  
Investments;  
Insurance commissioners;  
Coal;  
Political power  
Location  California  
People  Jones, Dave  
Title  To California's Insurance Regulator, Green Is Job One  
Author  Jenkins, Holman W, Jr  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.13  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Jun 11, 2016  
column  Business World  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1795833979  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1795833979?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 141 of 376 


Investing in Funds & ETFs: A Monthly Analysis --- Endowment Funds: The Church of England's Blessed Investing --- Its $10 billion fund succeeds, as it and others push an 'ethical' agenda 
Cowan, Gerrard.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]06 June 2016: R.6. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Investing+in+Funds+%26amp%3B+ETFs%3A+A+Monthly+Analysis+ --+Endowment+Funds%3A+The+Church+of+England%27s+Blessed+Investing+--­+Its+%2410+billion+fund+succeeds%2C+as+it+and+others+push+an+%27ethical%27+agenda&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2016-06­06&volume=&issue=&spage=R.6&au=Cowan%2C+Gerrard&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Because the fund is a perpetual endowment, it can take a very long-term view, says Andreas Whittam Smith, the head of the fund. The Rev. Seamus Finn, chairman of the New York-based Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility, says companies that obey the law, are transparent, treat their employees well and respect the environment and their communities are likely to be more sustainable in the long run. 

Full text 
The Church of England traces its history from the Roman Empire to the Reformation and beyond. The queen is its supreme governor, and almost a million worshipers attend its services every week. 
It is also home to a market-beating investment fund. 
The Church Commissioners for England endowment manages about GBP 7 billion ($10 billion) of assets for the church. The money helps cover the church's annual costs, from supporting dioceses to funding mission activities. Last year the endowment returned 8.2%, and it has grown by an average of 9.7% annually for the past 30 years. It aims to exceed the annual inflation rate, which was 3.4% over the 30 years, by at least 5 percentage points. 
Although most investors can't afford the patience that this endowment enjoys, its success may hold lessons for some. 
Because the fund is a perpetual endowment, it can take a very long-term view, says Andreas Whittam Smith, the head of the fund. Some of its rural estates, for example, have been in church hands for centuries. "Some of the things we're able to do, other sorts of investors simply wouldn't be able to . . . . They have to have a sort of steady return, they can't wait on things forever." 
That said, one lesson investors may take away from the endowment's performance is to look beyond publicly traded shares when considering investments. 
Mr. Whittam Smith says the endowment has long sought to reduce its exposure to exchange-listed stocks, a process that has accelerated in recent months with the sale of GBP 250 million from the global shares portfolio in March. Mr. Whittam Smith, whose formal title is First Church Estates Commissioner, is downbeat on the outlook for the world economy, saying it is inexorably losing steam and governments can't do much about it. 
"The point of our policy over a long number of years is to slowly, cautiously reduce our dependence upon quoted markets. We can never reduce it too far, because they provide a wonderful store of liquidity, so there's obviously a limit. But it's served us well to keep on diversifying." 
While paring its exposure to listed stocks, the endowment has increased its investments with private-equity managers and acquired other illiquid holdings in areas such as forestry. These were among its strongest performers last year, with the commissioners' private-equity managers notching returns of 20.2%. 
Investors are often frightened of illiquidity, Mr. Whittam Smith says. However, spreading holdings across different investments can lower the risks. "The worst thing is to have illiquid investments. . .as an overlarge holding. But if these holdings are all individually only 2 or 3 percentage points or something, then it's more manageable." 
Not everyone can make illiquid investments on the same scale as a large fund or charity. Mr. Whittam Smith says the main thing he would emphasize to investors is the importance of doing the deepest possible research into any managers with whom they choose to invest. Tom Joy, the director of investments under Mr. Whittam Smith, "spends as much time examining and researching and checking the firms to whom we give mandates as those firms do in checking into the individual shares which they buy for their portfolios," Mr. Whittam Smith says. 
Ethical investing also is a priority for the endowment, putting the church in a trendy area for both religious and nonreligious funds that focus on being "socially responsible." 
Like religious endowments, individuals can invest in funds that abide by a particular faith, including Christianity and Islam. While approaches and performances have varied, a recurring factor is a commitment to ethical or socially responsible investing. 
The Rev. Seamus Finn, chairman of the New York-based Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility, says companies that obey the law, are transparent, treat their employees well and respect the environment and their communities are likely to be more sustainable in the long run. 
"You can take into account social and environmental and governance issues and still get a financial return that would beat others if you're patient and you apply the right kind of scrutiny and examination," says Father Finn, who is also chief of faith-consistent investing at OIP Investment Trust, which manages the long-term assets of more than 200 Roman Catholic organizations. 
Both OIP Investment Trust and the Church Commissioners for England avoid investing in areas like armaments and pornography. But they will at times take a more proactive approach to ethical investing, too, meaning they won't immediately sell off a holding if they disagree with a company's stance on something, but will try to change the firm's direction instead. 
Last year the commissioners adopted a climate-change policy, divesting from companies that derive more than 10% of their revenue from thermal coal or the production of oil from tar sands. However, they chose to engage with, rather than divest from, one mining company with coal revenues close to the 10% threshold, with a view to ascertaining the future place of coal in the business. 
An ethical approach can make sense on a business level, says Adam Laird, passive-investment manager at Hargreaves Lansdown, a U.K. financial firm that has worked with charities in the past. Companies that are considered to be behaving ethically avoid the risk of fines, he says, and could build a good reputation with their customers. 
But he says ethical criteria alone don't translate into business success, and investors should be mindful of the bottom line. "In many cases the main objective is going to be the profit at the end of it, and the ethical [side], while it's a strong consideration, obviously has to sit within that framework," Mr. Laird says. 
Mr. Cowan is a writer in London. He can be reached at reports@wsj.com. 
Credit: By Gerrard Cowan 

(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Private equity; Mutual funds; Portfolio diversification; Series & special reports; Social investing; Endowment  
People  Whittam Smith, Andreas  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Church of England 813110  
Classification  2410: Social responsibility 3400: Investment analysis & personal finance 9175: Western Europe  
Title  Investing in Funds & ETFs: A Monthly Analysis --- Endowment Funds: The Church of England's Blessed Investing --- Its $10 billion fund succeeds, as it and others push an 'ethical' agenda  
Author  Cowan, Gerrard  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  R.6  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Jun 6, 2016  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  

Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1793855441  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1793855441?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-24  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 142 of 376 


Fossil Fuels' Unpopularity Leaves a Mark --- Pipelines, export-terminal projects are canceled or tabled, depriving areas of jobs, low-cost fuel 
Harder, Amy; Ailworth, Erin.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]02 June 2016: B.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Fossil+Fuels%27+Unpopularity+Leaves+a+Mark+--­+Pipelines%2C+export-terminal+projects+are+canceled+or+tabled%2C+depriving+areas+of+jobs%2C+low­cost+fuel&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2016-06­02&volume=&issue=&spage=B.1&au=Harder%2C+Amy%3BAilworth%2C+Erin&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Cancellations are affecting the coal industry's bid to ship its product through the Pacific Northwest, where local communities are increasingly opposed to fossil fuels due to climate-change concerns. In May, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers rejected a proposed $850 million coal-export terminal proposed for Cherry Point, Wash., a forested, coastal area two hours north of Seattle where two oil refineries and an aluminum facility operate. 

Full Text 
Many major fossil-fuel projects across the U.S., from pipelines to export terminals, have been shelved or significantly delayed because of a confluence of new regulations, grass­roots opposition and a drop in energy prices. 
Overall, more than a dozen projects, worth about $33 billion, have been either rejected by regulators or withdrawn by developers since 2012, with billions more tied up in projects still in regulatory limbo. 
The trend leaves some communities without access to lower-cost fuel and higher-paying jobs while also reflecting a growing wariness in the public's eye of fossil fuels. 
Cancellations are affecting the coal industry's bid to ship its product through the Pacific Northwest, where local communities are increasingly opposed to fossil fuels due to climate-change concerns. 
In May, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers rejected a proposed $850 million coal-export terminal proposed for Cherry Point, Wash., a forested, coastal area two hours north of Seattle where two oil refineries and an aluminum facility operate. The agency concluded the proposed terminal would violate tribal fishing rights of the Lummi Nation. 
The Lummi Nation, which says it has called the Cherry Point region its home for thousands of years, asked the federal government to reject the project in early 2015, supported by a broad array of environmental groups. 
As with other fossil-fuel projects -- including the Keystone XL oil pipeline that President Barack Obama rejected last year -- an alliance between Native American tribes and environmental groups proved formidable. 
Overall, five of the six export projects proposed in the Pacific Northwest in recent years have been shelved by developers or rejected by government regulators. The other project, near Longview, Wash., is awaiting approval. 
The Cherry Point project, proposed in 2011 by port company SSA Marine, was initially for a wider range of exports. But with coal prices high at the time, the developer secured contracts chiefly with coal companies. 
"The project was quickly redefined in the public's mind as simply a coal port," said Craig Cole, a local consultant who has worked on behalf of the project since 2010. 
Coal projects face the biggest challenges, but oil and natural-gas companies are also facing headwinds. One natural-gas pipeline proposed for the Northeast was scrapped and another rejected in recent months. 
Gordon van Welie, president and CEO of ISO-New England, the region's power grid operator, said such projects are badly needed. Residential consumers in New York and New England paid between 5% and 41% more than the national average for natural gas in March, the latest month for which data were available. They also paid more for electricity, which itself is increasingly made with natural gas. 
But finding ways to move gas into the Northeast has proven difficult. Matthew Piatek, an associate director at consulting firm IHS Energy, said some natural-gas pipeline projects have been delayed by more than a year-and-a-half. 
Without new infrastructure, Mr. Piatek said, "certain areas will need to rely on higher-cost sources." 
In late April, Kinder Morgan abandoned a roughly $3 billion project that would have ferried gas to Boston and elsewhere, saying it couldn't get buy-in from utilities. The project, Northeast Energy Direct, had attracted intense opposition from local activists. 
A few days later, New York regulators refused to issue a water quality permit for Constitution, a pipeline to move natural gas out of Pennsylvania to New York, as well other New England markets. 
Pipeline builder Williams Cos. and its partners, including Cabot Oil & Gas Corp., proposed the 124-mile, $1 billion project in 2012. Constitution's backers called the denial by regulators arbitrary and unjust and appealed to the courts on May 16. 
Still, the experience will likely prompt developers to move with caution on other pipeline plans. "We're hopeful that what New York is doing doesn't happen in other states," said Frank Ferazzi, general manager of Williams' Transco Pipeline. 
To be sure, some fossil-fuel projects have come to fruition in recent years despite the headwinds. 
The federal government has approved a handful of plans for exporting liquefied natural gas since 2012. Dozens more are pending, though analysts say many will probably not be built even if the government approves them, given the current natural-gas glut. Two proposed natural-gas export terminals in Oregon fell through earlier this year. 
From 2009 to 2014, U.S. companies added nearly 14,000 miles of crude-oil pipelines, a 27% increase, as the industry sought to catch up to a boom in domestic oil production. But most of the new pipelines were built in areas where that production was concentrated, such as North Dakota and Texas, rather than heavily populated areas, according to John Stoody, a spokesman for the Association of Oil Pipe Lines. 
Meanwhile, natural-gas pipeline mileage dropped 6,640 miles, or 2%, from 2009 to 2015. Operators either retrofitted existing lines with wider pipe or increased a pipe's compression to allow it to move more gas as natural gas production rose. 
In Cherry Point, near Bellingham, Wash., it is now unlikely anything new will be built on the 1,200 acres owned by SSA Marine. The only thing there will be what has existed for decades: a rusted, dilapidated conveyor belt for cement used to build Interstate-5, the main West Coast highway constructed in the 1950s. 
(See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: Public Correctly Saw Cherry Point as a Coal Terminal" -- WSJ June 13, 2016) 
Credit: By Amy Harder and Erin Ailworth 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Electricity distribution; 
Natural gas utilities; 
Fossil fuels; 
Coal; 
Energy industry 


Location 	United States--US 
Company / organization 	Name: Lummi Indian Nation 

NAICS: 921150 


Title 	Fossil Fuels' Unpopularity Leaves a Mark --- Pipelines, export-terminal projects are canceled or 
tabled, depriving areas of jobs, low-cost fuel 

Author 	Harder, Amy; Ailworth, Erin 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	B.1 
Publication year 	2016 
Publication date 	Jun 2, 2016 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 	00999660 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	News 
ProQuest document ID 	1793063389 
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1793063389?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-24  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 143 of 376 


Trump Makes Sense on Energy 
Jenkins, Holman W, Jr.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]01 June 2016: A.13. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Trump+Makes+Sense+on+Energy&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=0 06-01&volume=&issue=&spage=A.13&au=Jenkins%2C+Holman+W%2C+Jr&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The emergence of fracking, which has played the major role in upending the U.S. coal industry, was not the product of climate policy. 

Full Text 
Political markets are weird: They cry out for something and yet politicians, with their enslavement to conventional wisdom and careerist caution, are unwilling to supply it. 
Then along comes Donald Trump. 
Mr. Trump, in his set-piece energy speech on Thursday, did something that might outlast his presidential hopes. In his anti-intellectual way, he made an intellectual contribution. For decades, poorly justified scientific fears of future warming have hovered as an incubus over U.S. energy development. These fears, you'll notice, have not actually blocked much of anything: Fracking happened. The U.S. continues to export coal to China. But these fears fill America's leadership class with guilt and cognitive dissonance. 
Give Mr. Trump credit for trying to break the spell. 
In a speech the media has done its best to ignore or debunk, he said, "From an environmental standpoint, my priorities are very simple: clean air and clean water." With these words, he relegated back to the land of abstraction the abstraction known as climate change. 
His was a model political speech, one that Hillary Clinton might learn from. It set an agenda, with a minimum of windy rationalization, that voters can assess. Mr. Trump, as all politicians do, offered a prayer to the false deity of energy independence but he also offered a perfectly serviceable vision of Americans freely competing in global energy markets based on our own natural and (note) renewable resources and technology. 
Mr. Trump hit the climate moment squarely. 
By now, it should be obvious that a succession of "fraudulent" (to borrow a word used by out-of-school climate activist James Hansen) agreements like Kyoto, Copenhagen and Paris are not paving the way for a non-fraudulent agreement to impose costly climate actions the public would never support. 
The climate policy that actually gets enacted by now has a track record: It consists of ludicrous gestures and policies of cost-without-benefit like Tesla subsidies, whose driving force is the desire of influential pre-Trumpian elites for handouts. 
As for the $100 billion spent on climate research, it has yielded one certainty: A human impact is hard to disentangle from a welter of natural variables. 
What's more, science can't deny its nature forever. New information, based on actually measuring and understanding things like temperatures, emissions and cloud formation, is increasingly rewriting our hazy understanding of atmospheric processes. This data suggests our computer models have overstated the warming risk. 
Also ripe to be revisited are the "business as usual" scenarios presumed by the climate alarmists, in which patterns of energy production and consumption don't change in the absence of heroic government central planning efforts. 
The emergence of fracking, which has played the major role in upending the U.S. coal industry, was not the product of climate policy. 
The rise of the lithium-ion battery and explosion of battery-powered devices in our lives, of which even Tesla is but a flamboyant and overrated derivative, was not the product of climate policy. 
Climate movement types, meanwhile, have increasingly turned to vilifying nonbelievers as a substitute for dealing sensibly with a possible human impact on climate. A minority movement is on its way to becoming a cult, increasingly anti-science. Know them by their talk of "saving" the planet: Even under the worst scenarios, global warming does not endanger the planet. It poses an inconvenience to human communities that have become accustomed to stacking their wealth at the water's edge. 
Perhaps it took Donald Trump fully to exploit the fish-in-a-barrel vulnerability of Democrats on climate. Democrats love citing a pending climate catastrophe but want to live in the land of the real politically, never taking ownership of policies actually commensurate with the alleged crisis. Al Gore, when he was running for president in 2000, wanted Bill Clinton to open the strategic reserve to keep gas prices low. 
In his speech, Mr. Trump tweaked Hillary Clinton for promoting U.S fracking technology to China as secretary of state, then proposing to regulate fracking out of existence at home. He tweaked President Obama for seeking to block Canada's energy exports by killing the Keystone pipeline even while enabling Iran to open its spigots. 
Mr. Obama, proving again that he makes a better representative of the countries he visits than the one he comes from, said from Japan on Thursday that foreign leaders are "rattled" by the rise of Donald Trump. 
Good grief. What endorsement could carry less weight with the American people? These are the same foreign leaders who've been marching America's major allies into permanent decline, not least with massive renewable-energy subsidies that have produced no benefit for their societies. If anything survives as a monument to the great Trump boom of 2016, let's hope it's a turn toward realism on energy and climate. 
Credit: By Holman W. Jenkins, Jr. 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Climate change;  
Energy industry;  
Environmental policy  
Location  United States--US  
People  Clinton, Hillary; Trump, Donald J  
Classification  1540: Pollution control  
9190: United States  
Title  Trump Makes Sense on Energy  
Author  Jenkins, Holman W, Jr  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.13  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Jun 1, 2016  
column  Business World  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1792699860  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1792699860?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 144 of 376 


Business News: Climate-Change Tests Voted Down --- Investors at Chevron, Exxon reject proposals to assess risks of fight against global warming 
Olson, Bradley; Friedman, Nicole.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]26 May 2016: B.3. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Business+News%3A+Climate-Change+Tests+Voted+Down+--­+Investors+at+Chevron%2C+Exxon+reject+proposals+to+assess+risks+of+fight+against+global+warming&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2016-05­26&volume=&issue=&spage=B.3&au=Olson%2C+Bradley%3BFriedman%2C+Nicole&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Separately on Wednesday, the White House said it planned to propose a new rule that companies with federal contracts must disclose whether they share information about the risks that a changing climate could pose to their operations, as well as their goals to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. 

Full Text 
Shareholders at Exxon Mobil Corp. and Chevron Corp. narrowly voted down resolutions calling for stress tests to determine the risk that efforts to curb climate change pose to their businesses. 
Despite the defeat, the proposals drew more support than any contested climate-related votes in the history of the two biggest U.S. oil and gas companies. 
Preliminary results showed 41% support from Chevron investors that cast ballots and 38% support at Exxon, an indication that more mainstream shareholders such as pension 
funds, sovereign-wealth funds and asset managers are starting to take more seriously the threat of a global weaning from fossil fuels. 

The number of shareholders supporting the climate-risk measures "is significant, and it will continue to grow," said Beth Richtman, investment manager at the California Public 

Employees' Retirement System, which manages about $290 billion. Calpers owns about $1 billion worth of Exxon shares and approximately $600 million in Chevron stock. 
"There's a groundswell of share owners who are going to keep pushing this forward," she said. "We need to see them rise to the realm of best practices in terms of climate risk 
reporting, and we're not there yet." 

While the shareholder votes aren't binding, supporters of the measures declared victory even in defeat after the oil companies' annual shareholder meetings Wednesday. 

"You have to read this as a shot across the bow of the industry," said Andrew Logan, director of the oil and gas program at Ceres, a Boston-based nonprofit group that 
advocated for the proposals. 
Exxon and Chevron had fought to keep the measures off the ballot, a push that the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rebuffed. 
Separately on Wednesday, the White House said it planned to propose a new rule that companies with federal contracts must disclose whether they share information about the 

risks that a changing climate could pose to their operations, as well as their goals to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. 

That rule, expected to be completed this fall, would affect most federal contracts. The U.S. government is a major buyer of oil products, including jet fuel and diesel used by the 
military. 
Exxon Chief Executive Rex Tillerson said Wednesday the company includes in its energy outlook a proxy cost on carbon. 
"It's really the only way we know to accommodate in our financial decision-making the impacts of future policies that are yet to be formulated," he said. He added that most 

Exxon projects are either too short-term or too large for the theoretical cost of carbon they use in planning purposes to affect their decision-making. 

Exxon has also noted it published a 2014 report on managing climate risks that said none of the company's oil and gas holdings are threatened by a global push to reduce 
carbon emissions. 
Chevron told investors that the proposed climate measure was flawed. Efforts to limit warming could allow some energy producers, such as those who sell natural gas, to benefit 

while others fall out of favor, including coal-mining companies, Chevron said. The company is a large producer of natural gas and factors in a theoretical future price of carbon when deciding which projects to sanction, making a stress test unnecessary, the company said. 
"We don't think this proposal will advance our thinking," Chevron Chief Executive John Watson said Wednesday. 
Measures of this sort have been pushed in prior years by environmental groups and activist investors, but now more traditional shareholders are putting their muscle behind the 
proposals. 

Those who led the filing of the Exxon resolution were the Church Commissioners for England and the New York State Common Retirement Fund, along with others. The lead 

filers for the Chevron resolution were Hermes Equity Ownership Services and Wespath Investment Management, a division of the United Methodist Church. 
Investors representing more than $10 trillion in assets pledged to support the climate proxy measures, which assert that Exxon, Chevron and other big oil companies should be 
transparent about how their drilling prospects would suffer if the world turned away from carbon-intensive fuels, including crude oil. 

Amy Harder contributed to this article. 
Credit: By Bradley Olson and Nicole Friedman 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Shareholder voting;  
Proposals;  
Climate change;  
Stockholders  
Location  United States--US  
People  Tillerson, Rex W  
Company / organization  Name: Public Employees Retirement System-California  
NAICS: 525110;  
Name: Chevron Corp  
NAICS: 211111, 324110;  
Name: Exxon Mobil Corp  
NAICS: 211111, 447110  
Title  Business News: Climate-Change Tests Voted Down --- Investors at Chevron, Exxon reject  
proposals to assess risks of fight against global warming  
Author  Olson, Bradley; Friedman, Nicole  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.3  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  May 26, 2016  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1791224424  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1791224424?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  

Database US Newsstream 
document 145 of 376 


Business News: Chevron: Fossil Fuels Here to Stay 
Olson, Bradley; Kent, Sarah.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]25 May 2016: B.2. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Business+News%3A+Chevron%3A+Fossil+Fuels+Here+to+Stay&title=W 05-25&volume=&issue=&spage=B.2&au=Olson%2C+Bradley%3BKent%2C+Sarah&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
[...]it has fallen short of what some investor groups want: a detailed discussion of how specific company assets may decline in value if more stringent policies are adopted to reduce global emissions. 

Full Text 
SAN RAMON, Calif. -- Chevron Corp. Chief Executive John Watson has a blunt message for investors, climate activists and anyone else listening: Fossil fuels aren't going away. 
But this stance increasingly sets him apart from his oil counterparts as they react to pressure from climate-change activists and concerned shareholders. 
On Wednesday, Chevron, like Exxon Mobil Corp., is facing a shareholder-proposal campaign by activists who want the company to detail the risk climate change poses to its 

business. Exxon is opposed to the proposal, and so is Mr. Watson: He questions its entire premise, arguing that climate change might even prove positive for Chevron, if it spurs more of the planet to shift from coal to natural gas. 
"I hope to gain market share in some areas," he said. 
Where many other oil and gas executives are retreating at least in rhetoric, emphasizing common ground with environmentalists, Mr. Watson, who became CEO in 2010, has 
doubled down. 

Some of Chevron's biggest rivals, including Royal Dutch Shell PLC, Exxon, and BP PLC, have embraced some form ofa price on carbon -- a system that generally taxes polluters, 
which then pass the costs onto consumers and can lower demand. Several companies have also made new forays into renewable energy or emission-reduction technology. 
Shell's CEO on Tuesday aligned himself with those pressing for a major response to climate changeduring the company's annual meeting. 

"We believe absolutely that climate change is real. Not all oil companies do that," Shell CEOBen van Beurden told investors. 
Mr. Watson, 59 years old, isn't a climate-change skeptic. But the staunch disciple of free markets believes that only a major technological breakthrough, rather than a top-down 
solution from government, will substantially curb climate change. 

While nearly 200 countries agreed to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions in Paris last year, Mr. Watson doubts they will achieve their goals. 

"You can sign agreements in Paris, that's a good step," he said. "But when you sign agreements and create the impression that it's going to be implemented when no one's 
identified the trillions of dollars that it's going to cost, it's just not clear that's going to deliver." 
Shell, BP and ConocoPhillips have welcomed the idea of making additional disclosures about the risk climate change poses to their business. 
The companies have released additional information, such as their outlook for how much global oil demand will fall if the Paris goals are met. But it has fallen short of what 

some investor groups want: a detailed discussion of how specific company assets may decline in value if more stringent policies are adopted to reduce global emissions. 
Chevron is resisting such proposals,but notes that it already considers a potential price on carbon when planning projects. 
Credit: By Bradley Olson and Sarah Kent 

(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Emissions; 

Natural gas; 
Climate change; 
Fossil fuels 


People 	Watson, John 
Company / organization 	Name: Exxon Mobil Corp 

NAICS: 447110, 211111; 


Name: Chevron Corp NAICS: 211111, 324110 
Title  Business News: Chevron: Fossil Fuels Here to Stay  
Author  Olson, Bradley; Kent, Sarah  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.2  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  May 25, 2016  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1790877339  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1790877339?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 146 of 376 


OK for Companies to Kill Thousands of Eagles 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]23 May 2016: A.12. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=OK+for+Companies+to+Kill+Thousands+of+Eagles&title=Wall+Street+ 05-23&volume=&issue=&spage=A.12&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
[...]the mosquito population increased exponentially, spreading malaria and killing millions of Africans and South Americans in warm, humid areas of the globe. 

Full Text 
Regarding Robert Bryce's "An Ill Wind: Open Season on Bald Eagles" (op-ed, May 16): Wind power is one of the best ways to protect eagles and other birds because it combats 
their biggest threat -- climate change. 
Wind energy has the lowest impact on wildlife and its habitats of any source of energy, as detailed in a 2009 study by the New York State Energy Research and Development 
Authority, which analyzed the life-cycle impacts of the six major forms of energy generation. The report concluded, "nonrenewable electricity generation sources, such as coal 
and oil, pose higher risks to wildlife than renewable electricity generation sources, such as hydro and wind." 

Misplaced concern over the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's new proposal risks overshadowing larger threats such as climate change. The National Audubon Society points out 
that climate change is putting more than 300 different North American bird species at risk, not just eagles. As an emission-free energy source, wind power helps reduce this 
threat. 

David Jenkins President Conservatives for Responsible Stewardship Oakton, Va. 
The Obama Fish & Wildlife Service has recently granted every windmill farm in America the privilege of killing up to 4,200 eagles a year for 30 years. This demonstrates the priorities of the liberals. In the 1970s they pushed to outlaw DDT world-wide because DDT harmed the eggs of eagles and other birds. As a result, the mosquito population increased exponentially, spreading malaria and killing millions of Africans and South Americans in warm, humid areas of the globe. Now, eagles will take a back seat to the global-warming scare so that liberals can increase government intrusion into our lives, not to mention increasing our utility bills drastically. In short, sacrifice humans for birds but sacrifice birds for government control. 
Roger Rice 
Leesburg, Fla. 
If only the California delta smelt had wings and could fly. Then every wind turbine in the U.S. would be mothballed overnight. No new permits would be allowed and wind farms 
would be as unwelcome as a coal mine. This is just more proof of how morally bankrupt the Fish and Wildlife Service and "environmentalists" truly are. 
Peter de Hertogh 
West Hartford, Conn. 

Let us imagine, if it could be proven, that nuclear power plants were killing over 4,000 bald eagles every year. We would be hearing calls to immediately shut down all our nuclear power plants and give up on nuclear power for all time. Yet the same people who seek to ban nuclear power, coal and fracking for natural gas want to give windmills a free pass on killing endangered birds. 
Alex Kovnat 
West Bloomfield Township, Mich. 
This hypocrisy should stun no one who soberly assesses an agenda-driven administration that will stop at absolutely nothing to destroy the basic American principles of individual rights and freedom from an oppressive government. Wind turbines are clubbing eagles to death. The metaphor couldn't be clearer. 
Christopher Hanford Benicia, Calif. 
As stated on its website, the FWS's mission is: "working with others, to conserve, protect and enhance fish, wildlife, and plants and their habitats for the continuing benefit of the American people." That mission is in serious jeopardy. 
Robert H. Aland 
Winnetka, Ill. 
(See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: We Had to Destroy the Village to Save It, Part II" -- WSJ June 4, 2016) 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Birds; 

Nuclear power plants; 

Climate change; 
Electricity generation 


Location 	California 
Company / organization 	Name: National Audubon Society 

NAICS: 813312, 813990 


Title 	OK for Companies to Kill Thousands of Eagles 
Author 	Anonymous 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.12 
Publication year 	2016 
Publication date 	May 23, 2016 
Section 	Letters to the Editor 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 	00999660 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	News 
ProQuest document ID 	1790307911 
Document URL 	https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1790307911?accountid=14902 
Copyright 	(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further 
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Last updated 2017-11-23 
Database US Newsstream 
document 147 of 376 


Exxon Is Big Tobacco? Tell Me Another 
Jenkins, Holman W, Jr.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]18 May 2016: A.11. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Exxon+Is+Big+Tobacco%3F+Tell+Me+Another&title=Wall+Street+Jo 05-18&volume=&issue=&spage=A.11&au=Jenkins%2C+Holman+W%2C+Jr&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
A decade later, the American Bar Association Journal would look back and conclude: "The only big winners in the litigation appear to be the tobacco companies, the state treasurers and the lawyers who represented both sides." 

Full Text 
Before anyone collapses uncritically in front of the claim by activist groups and liberal politicians that they are doing to Exxon Mobil what they did to tobacco, readers might want to take a look at tobacco stock prices. 
Yup, all up strongly since the 1998 "master settlement agreement" that 46 states imposed on Big Tobacco ostensibly as punishment for its sins. How was the industry expected to pay $246 billion in alleged Medicaid damages? By selling more cigarettes, of course, now helped by a government-orchestrated pricing cartel, with the profits equitably shared between the companies, the pols and the buccaneers of the trial bar. 
A decade later, the American Bar Association Journal would look back and conclude: "The only big winners in the litigation appear to be the tobacco companies, the state treasurers and the lawyers who represented both sides." 
So obviously corrupt was the outcome that it had one salutary effect: It capped the careers of the ambitious state pols who promoted this travesty. Hubert Humphrey III, possessor of Minnesota's most illustrious name, finished last in a three-man governor's race. Texas AG Dan Morales went to jail for creating fake documents in an attempt to secure a slice of the state's windfall for a law-school buddy. 
Dickie Scruggs, most prominent of the anti-tobacco lawyers, would later go to jail for bribing a judge. One wonders if New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman and California's Kamala Harris, who keep trumpeting the tobacco precedent while attacking Exxon, really have given their analogy the due diligence it deserves. 
On the advice of their lawyers, tobacco executives pretended not to know what their own warning labels said, which became their main source of legal jeopardy. In allegedly parallel fashion, Exxon is accused of knowing about the science of climate change, and casting doubt on the science of climate change. 
The problem is, knowing and doubting are the same when it comes to the iffy claims of climate science at its current state of development. 
Rhode Island's Sheldon Whitehouse, in his latest unattended Senate soliloquy demanding a federal RICO investigation of Exxon, claims that "real science continues to prove the connection between carbon pollution and the startling changes we see in our climate and oceans." 
He certainly didn't get this from the latest report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, sharer of Al Gore's Nobel Prize. While insisting that climate models have "improved steadily," the group abandons its central forecast of three degrees Celsius of warming from a doubling of atmospheric carbon-dioxide and offers no central forecast at all. 
Where it once said warming of less than 1.5 C would be "very unlikely," now it says warming of less than 1 C would be "extremely unlikely." 
With these adjustments, even a politicized, orthodoxy-prone IPCC recognizes an emerging shake-up in climate science. After 200 years of prolific coal burning, after 30 years of increasingly rigorous temperature measurement, data from the actual atmosphere no longer are being treated by climate modelers as an inconvenience. Now these real-world data are driving new estimates of climate sensitivity -- and, lo, these estimates suggest a net impact at the very low end of previous standard forecasts. 
Exxon never denied the risk of human influence on climate, as even the exposes generated by compliant media can't help showing. Its real sin, aside from consorting with researchers with a penchant for realism, was criticizing policy proposals that would be enormously costly while having vanishingly small effect on atmospheric carbon-dioxide. 
Transportation fuels account for less than 15% of global emissions, and Exxon's production accounts for just 4% of transportation fuels. If the U.S. government were looking for somebody to sue over climate change -- or, more to the point, over climate-change hypocrisy -- it would do better to look in the mirror. As a recent paper by the nonprofit National Bureau of Economic Research put it, "Coal mined on federally managed lands accounts for approximately 40% of U.S. coal consumption and 13% of total U.S. energy-related CO2 emissions." 
He now criticizes the 1998 tobacco settlement, but activist Matt Myers and his group Tobacco-Free Kids walked away with a healthy share of the proceeds. Meanwhile, the states quickly reneged on their own promise to spend the proceeds on anti-smoking programs. And, just this month, a Food and Drug Administration effort to shut down e-cigarettes was quietly applauded by state treasurers and conventional cigarette companies as a step to uphold their revenue from the traditional tobacco products covered in the settlement. 
As Donald Trump might say, nobody ever went broke emphasizing the dishonesty and opportunism of the U.S. political class, including the activist class. That's your most reliable forecast for how an Exxon lawsuit might play out. 
Credit: By Holman W. Jenkins, Jr. 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Carbon;  
Corruption;  
Climate science;  
Tobacco industry  
Location  United States--US  
Company / organization  Name: Exxon Mobil Corp  
NAICS: 447110, 211111  
Title  Exxon Is Big Tobacco? Tell Me Another  
Author  Jenkins, Holman W, Jr  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.11  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  May 18, 2016  
column  Business World  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1789356194  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1789356194?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 148 of 376 


Trumpism Equals Arbitrary Government 
Jenkins, Holman W, Jr.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]07 May 2016: A.11. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Trumpism+Equals+Arbitrary+Government&title=Wall+Street+Journa 05-07&volume=&issue=&spage=A.11&au=Jenkins%2C+Holman+W%2C+Jr&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
When Congresses of every party and every complexion have spoken eloquently by failing to legislate on climate change, President Obama has taken it on himself to kill the coal industry with regulation and prop up solar and wind schemes that only exist because of government favoritism. 

Full Text 
Republican House Speaker Paul Ryan's refusal on Thursday to endorse Donald Trump as his party's inevitable nominee is an 11th-hour invitation for Trump fans to get serious. 
There is a version of Trump fatalism growing among thinking Republicans. He's a boor and unqualified to be president, but he would break the D.C. crockery at a time when the crockery needs breaking. They seem to think a Trump presidency would be able to attack the source of America's economic malaise. But he has indicated no such thing. America's problems are self-made and can't be solved by wringing the necks of the Chinese and Mexicans until they give us back our greatness. 
I recently bumped into the CEO of a small Ohio manufacturing company. Dodd-Frank did not solve the vexing problem of too big to fail but did afflict Dan Rooney's SCI Engineered Materials Inc., and hundreds of companies like it, with a pointless burden by disallowing brokers voting on routine corporate matters in the absence of specific shareholder instructions. 
Mr. Rooney now devotes a week a year to hunting up and cajoling shareholders to make a quorum for uncontested director elections. "Not an optimal use of management time," he tells me. 
Multiply his experience by a million and you have the American malaise. The Affordable Care Act made health insurance less affordable by piling on mandates (in effect, restricting supply), then subsidizing certain Americans to buy it anyway. A stupider approach to reform is not possible. 
A tongue-tied Hillary Clinton understands that the $15 minimum wage, rapidly becoming Democratic Party orthodoxy, is an unmitigated job killer. In California and New York, labor has lobbied for an exemption for itself from the $15 minimum. Why? So businesses dependent on low-wage workers will be able to survive only by submitting to unionized labor. (This is true.) Yet now the random-walk Trump policy brain is leaning toward a $15 minimum. Then again, maybe not so randomly given a Trump agenda that already has considerable appeal for the Democrats' current labor allies. 
When Congresses of every party and every complexion have spoken eloquently by failing to legislate on climate change, President Obama has taken it on himself to kill the coal industry with regulation and prop up solar and wind schemes that only exist because of government favoritism. 
In the face of two decades of congressional intent, and in defiance of the basic rules of the administrative state, he acted to swaddle the Internet in utility regulation not out of some thoughtful policy analysis but (as the Washington Post reported) to "galvanize allies in Congress as well as young, tech-savvy progressives in preparation for the 2016 campaign." 
Call it overregulation, call it crony capitalism, call it rent-seeking (as economists do). This is the deeper malignity that has pundits suddenly thumbing through books like Joseph Tainter's "The Collapse of Complex Societies," Jonathan Rauch's "Demosclerosis," and Mancur Olson's "The Rise and Decline of Nations." Mr. Trump is not the antidote -- he's the apotheosis of arbitrary government, with his extrajudicial threats against businesses that make competitive plant-location decisions, with his latest musing about stiffing owners of U.S. debt. 
There is a second kind of Trump fatalism: Mr. Trump is everything his critics say and the chief executive the country needs, because a few years of President Trump would usefully demystify the presidency. 
The next best thing to leaving the job unfilled, goes the thinking, is filling it with a reality-TV jester. He could spend four years dragging the White House press corps to photo ops at various Trump golf courses and hotels. He could embroil the entire government apparatus in "walking back" his unbon mots. He could sit for endless depositions spawned by his illegal attempts to impose the Trump agenda by decree. He could rail against a Congress that (as Mr. Ryan indicates) is likely to be uncooperative regardless of party. 
Gridlock in spades has its appeal; in the long run, however, the country needs institutional reform, requiring laws passed by Congress, which President Trump would be perfectly shaped by history not to deliver. 
Which brings us to a second scenario: Candidate Trump may be a nominee perfectly shaped by history to hand the White House and Congress to Hillary Clinton and the Democrats. Then -- not the least-interesting outcome -- Democrats, with no room for excuses, will either fix America's slow-growth malaise or finally discredit themselves with voters. In essence, 2016 will be a do-over for 2008, when the party gave America the wrong president at the wrong time. 
By the way, twice in my lifetime -- the Carter-era deregulations and the '86 tax reform -- our political system did somehow bring itself to take a big whack at rent-seeking. It can be done. 
Credit: By Holman W. Jenkins, Jr. 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Political campaigns;  
Presidential elections  
People  Ryan, Paul; Trump, Donald J  
Company / organization  Name: Republican Party  
NAICS: 813940  
Title  Trumpism Equals Arbitrary Government  
Author  Jenkins, Holman W, Jr  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.11  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  May 7, 2016  
column  Business World  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1787231280  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1787231280?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 149 of 376 


The Green Unreality Show 
Jenkins, Holman W, Jr.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]23 Apr 2016: A.11. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=The+Green+Unreality+Show&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999 04-23&volume=&issue=&spage=A.11&au=Jenkins%2C+Holman+W%2C+Jr&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The most paradoxical claim, regularly aired in the New York Times, is that the fate of the planet depends on how you vote in the U.S. presidential race because solar power is falling rapidly in cost and is now competitive with fossil fuels. Widely touted earlier this month was a study by United Nations Environment Program claiming that renewables now represent 10% of global electricity production -- never mind that more authoritative sources like the International Energy Agency and the U.S. Energy Information Administration put the figure at 7%. 

Full Text 
The climate deal negotiated in Paris and signed in New York Friday is not a treaty. It is not enforceable against the U.S. or anybody else. It waves vaguely at the idea of a $100 billion adjustment fund for poorer countries, to be filled in later by somebody else, maybe. 
Like all such international agreements, it's a giant PR exercise designed to put a global imprimatur on what domestic politicians want to do anyway. In China and India, that's grow their energy output any way they can. In President Obama's case, it's continue to dish out green mandates and subsidies that please his entourage. 
Economist Bruce Yandle coined the term bootleggers and Baptists for political coalitions of true believers and their more self-interested fellow travelers. The climate movement is the ultimate example. 
Having ginned up a climate "crisis" in the first place, it's almost as if the movement has ginned up a fake victory to keep the game going. This week's signing was preceded by an outpouring of fishy studies in the press about how renewable energy is on the verge of solving the problem. 
The most paradoxical claim, regularly aired in the New York Times, is that the fate of the planet depends on how you vote in the U.S. presidential race because solar power is falling rapidly in cost and is now competitive with fossil fuels. 
Well, then it doesn't matter how you vote. Cheaper solar energy will displace fossil energy for purely economic reasons. 
The fragment of truth here is that the cost of solar collectors has come down thanks to Chinese production, but this represents a small fraction of the actual cost of integrating solar into the power system. 
Solar is free; the sun does not send us a bill. But solar is only competitive to the extent that fossil-fuel plants remain on hand to provide backup power when the sun is not shining. Unfortunately, fossil-fuel plant economics deteriorate rapidly when plants must stop and start to make up for fluctuating wind and solar. 
This is why, for instance, Germany managed to increase its use of renewables and its output of carbon dioxide at the same time -- because it resorted to cheap coal to keep the lights on at a price its people could afford. 
This is why states like Iowa and Texas, which brag about their wind production, have more stubborn emissions output than do states that simply followed market signals to switch to gas from coal. 
A giddy media is full of traps for the unwary. Widely touted earlier this month was a study by United Nations Environment Program claiming that renewables now represent 10% of global electricity production -- never mind that more authoritative sources like the International Energy Agency and the U.S. Energy Information Administration put the figure at 7%. 
UNEP also claimed that $286 billion was invested in renewables last year, more than twice the investment in new coal and gas plants. This is the Soviet habit of measuring inputs rather than outputs. Consumers get far less power per dollar of renewable investment than they get from fossil-fuel investment. 
In truth, the cost of backup power not only caps solar and wind growth, renewables may already have overshot. The International Renewable Energy Agency, in a discordantly sober report, predicts that wind and solar will start shrinking their share in the fast-growing developing economies in coming years. 
Now you, dear reader, are properly backgrounded on a fight going on in many U.S. states. The fight concerns the exorbitant costs imposed on other ratepayers to subsidize backup power for solar adopters. 
Nevada has been a recent ground zero. A battle there enlisted utility owner Warren Buffett and solar promoter Elon Musk on opposing sides. Eventually utility regulators trimmed back generous prices paid to solar-panel owners who sell excess power back to the local utility. 
Curiously, solar fans didn't applaud. When they can't sell their excess back to the power company at inflated prices, solar adopters would have greater incentive to invest in a battery to store it for their own use. They no longer would need backup from coal or gas. Solar would become a real competitor with the grid, not just a sinkhole for handouts. And obviated would be any nasty political arguments over how much to pillage innocent ratepayers to make solar viable. 
Of course, solar promoters don't see it this way. They care about their stock prices, not the planet. 
The good news is that battery technology will continue to improve, thanks to the proliferation of portable devices in our lives, and so will the economics of grid independence. True climate worrywarts should be grateful for small favors. Whatever the truth of man's impact on global warming, the outcome will be shaped more by the unregulated evolution of technology than by any master plan from the bureaucracy. Meanwhile, the ecstatic burble accompanying the Paris deal is just another layer of fraudulence of the kind that has become too much mixed in with the climate cause. 
Credit: By Holman W. Jenkins, Jr. 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Alternative energy sources;  
International agreements;  
Renewable resources;  
Solar energy  
Location  United States--US  
Title  The Green Unreality Show  
Author  Jenkins, Holman W, Jr  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.11  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Apr 23, 2016  
column  Business World  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1783656180  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1783656180?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 150 of 376 


The Place That Wants Donald Trump Most --- Buchanan County, Va., shows his support and the challenge he poses 
Davis, Bob; Ballhaus, Rebecca.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]18 Apr 2016: A.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=The+Place+That+Wants+Donald+Trump+Most+--­+Buchanan+County%2C+Va.%2C+shows+his+support+and+the+challenge+he+poses&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2016-04­18&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Davis%2C+Bob%3BBallhaus%2C+Rebecca&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Many in the county blame the Obama administration's regulations for a downturn in the coal industry and figure Mr. Trump will quash those rules and ignore scientists who warn about global warming. According to an October 2015 Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll, 76% of Trump supporters feel "uneasy and out of place" in their own country, compared with 62% of Republicans who say they wouldn't consider voting for him. 

Full Text 
BUCHANAN COUNTY, Va. -- There isn't much Jody Bostic believes in these days. 
The government has abandoned him, he feels. Local coal mines have laid him off so many times he opened a T-shirt store to make a living. Big-city media treat him and his neighbors like know-nothings. 
His remaining hope: Donald Trump will become president and use his business skills to bring jobs to this Appalachian mountain county. "Hey, in this county, things are going downhill. People are getting laid off. People are leaving," says the 39-year-old former miner. "If Trump don't get it, it will be another blow." 
Mr. Trump won Buchanan County with 69.7% of the vote in the March 1 Republican primary, the highest percentage vote he has collected in any U.S. county so far. A close look at the white, working-class enclave, which is in Virginia's southwest, provides a clearer picture of why Mr. Trump inspires supporters and poses problems for anti-Trump GOP strategists. 
Voters here say Mr. Trump understands their frustration and will fight the Washington establishment on their behalf. In an area awash in uncertainty -- Will mines remain open? Will the river flood? Must the young leave to find work? -- he is a reassuring presence, someone who has visited their living rooms for years via television. 
Here, as elsewhere, his message of American renewal, closed borders and antigovernment populism resonates despite his brashness, even among Democrats. 
His wealth isn't a put-off. County Sheriff Ray Foster, who supports Mr. Trump, says rich businessmen have long been well-liked around the county because "they make jobs for the people here." 
As for the imbroglios over Mr. Trump's comments about women and his shifting views on abortion and foreign policy, which have driven up his negative ratings in national polls, they are generally seen here as a plus. They reinforce his outsider status. 
"He talks before he thinks," Mr. Foster says, "so he doesn't have time to think up something and lie to you." 
The lessons are important for New York, where Mr. Trump is heavily favored to win the primary on Tuesday and has a chance of peeling off working-class Democrats in the general election. He could do especially well in Republican strongholds along the state's southern tier, federally classified as part of Appalachia. Counties there share some characteristics of Buchanan County. 
In Buchanan County, Mr. Trump has won over many Democrats because he not only "speaks for them -- he speaks in terms they're comfortable with," says Gerald Arrington, the county's commonwealth's attorney and a registered Democrat. Mr. Arrington says Mr. Trump won his vote in the Virginia primary, the first time he had cast a vote for a Republican. 
The 1,586 votes Mr. Trump received in the county were triple the total for the Democratic primary winner, Hillary Clinton. Eight years ago, the county was solidly Democratic: Mrs. Clinton won 2,245 votes then in a primary against Barack Obama, defeating him 90% to 9%, and collecting more than five times as many votes as the Republican primary winner. 
Many in the county blame the Obama administration's regulations for a downturn in the coal industry and figure Mr. Trump will quash those rules and ignore scientists who warn about global warming. 
Nationwide, the 10 counties Mr. Trump has carried by the largest margins have much in common. They are mainly white, rural and southern. They sharply lag behind the national average in household income and education, and top it in poverty and disability payments. 
Four of these counties rely on agriculture, says Moody's Analytics, while another three are local transportation hubs. A big employer in one, Tallahatchie County, Miss., is a prison. 
While people in these counties feel left behind, they don't face the challenges from immigration or foreign trade that Mr. Trump has made his signature issues. All but two of the counties trail the nation by wide margins in percentage of the population that are immigrants. Few face much pressure from Chinese imports. Buchanan County benefits from trade, especially through coal exports to China. 
Instead, Mr. Trump's appeal is visceral. According to an October 2015 Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll, 76% of Trump supporters feel "uneasy and out of place" in their own country, compared with 62% of Republicans who say they wouldn't consider voting for him. 
"Trump has an appeal that a traditional Republican would have a hard time matching," says Jeff Horwitt, a senior vice president at pollster Hart Research. If Mr. Trump is denied the nomination at the Republican convention despite a clear lead among delegates -- a possibility being discussed by some in the party -- Republican turnout could fall sharply, he adds. 
Robert Collins, 43, a Buchanan County trucker, says he isn't sure he could bring himself to vote for Sen. Ted Cruz if he wins the nomination by undermining Mr. Trump. 
Mr. Trump's cocky style has turned off some supporters, including Ralph Rife, a disabled coal miner in Slate Creek who voted for him but now says he can't stomach him. "He's like a loose cannon," Mr. Rife says, citing Mr. Trump's encouragement of Japan and South Korea to develop nuclear weapons and his shifting abortion position. 
Buchanan County has long seen itself as cut off from the American mainstream, separated by mountains, accents and a mining culture with the ever-present danger of cave-ins and explosions. Natives of this county at the westernmost edge of Virginia like to say "Virginia ends at Roanoke," a city with a trendy downtown about 180 miles east. 
"We're like in purgatory," says James L. Rife, 54, who pulls up near a local Wal-Mart to buy Trump T-shirts sold out of the back of a black SUV. "You ain't dead, but you ain't alive." Mr. Rife has lived on disability checks since 1991 after he got buried in a mine cave-in. 
In the 1970s, coal trucks were so common residents complained about coal dust on cars and windows. When Danny Smith, 53, now a coal-mine superintendent, finished high school in 1981, he says his uncle left him miner's boots and a hard hat on his porch as a graduation present. In the 1990s, miners say, they could quit, walk down the road and find work at a different mine. Coal companies competed to hold the most elaborate Christmas parties. 
Coal-industry employment has shrunk due to automation and declining markets. The county's population has fallen 27% since 1990 to 23,000 and has grown older as young people depart. Inflation-adjusted median income is barely half the national average and hasn't budged since 1995, Moody's Analytics estimates. Three times as many Buchanan households receive Social Security disability checks as have a college graduate. 
Novelist Lee Smith, who was born in the county and writes about it, says fatalism and depression are rampant. The county seat of Grundy, on the Levisa Fork River, has had nine major floods since 1929. One in 1977 destroyed its shopping district. A $177 million flood renovation project replaced the buildings with a highway and carved away part of a mountain to create flat land for the Wal-Mart, which opened in 2011. 
"It's been nothing but construction and red mud for 15 years," Ms. Smith says of the reconstruction. "People are voting against what's happening to them. There's a disgust with the way things have been going." 
For decades, that distrust translated into votes for Democrats, a tradition nurtured by the United Mine Workers and memories of the New Deal and Great Society. Al Gore carried the county in 2000 with 58% of the vote against George W. Bush, despite local suspicion of environmentalists. John Kerry did nearly as well four years later. Mr. Obama lost the county in 2008, but not heavily, 46% to 54%, to Sen. John McCain. 
In 2009, the area elected a Republican to the Virginia House of Delegates for first time since the 1950s. In 2010, 14-term Democratic Rep. Rick Boucher was defeated for re­election. By 2012, the county was solidly GOP, with Mr. Obama receiving 32% of the vote in his re-election bid. 
Vern Presley, the county's Democratic Party chairman, traces the Democrats' decline to the widespread belief Mr. Obama's environmental policies are crippling coal. He thinks the charge is unfair because coal is also hammered by cheap natural gas and shrinking foreign demand. 
The charge sticks, and it benefits Mr. Trump, who pledges to eliminate the federal Environmental Protection Agency. At a February rally at Radford University, a 2.5-hour drive from Buchanan County, he told a cheering audience "we're going to bring the coal industry back 100%." He is one of the few presidential candidates to campaign in coal country this election. 
Mrs. Clinton is unwelcome. Local residents seem to have memorized her televised remarks in March that if she became president "we're going to put a lot of coal miners and coal companies out of business," a comment she later said was a mistake. Joe Street, vice president of a coal-mine machinery supplier near Grundy, says he can imagine lawn signs this fall: "Hillary Clinton: The War On Coal." 
Clinton spokesman Brian Fallon notes that Mrs. Clinton has proposed a $30 billion plan to aid coal communities. 
The Trump slogan "Make America Great Again," say supporters here, means returning to the economy of 10 years ago, when coal held its own and the global economy hadn't suffered through the financial crisis and its aftermath. Coal miners in the county were paid an average $90,334 in 2014, the latest Bureau of Labor Statistics figures available, but such jobs are rapidly disappearing. Half the licensed coal mines closed between 2013 and 2015, reducing coal miners by 50% to 1,028, according to Virginia's mining authority. 
While the county has looked to diversify its economy, the new jobs pay far less. A Sykes Enterprises call center advertised starting hourly wages of $9.50 last year. Wal-Mart pays about $10. 
At a dinner early this month with eight coal-industry executives in a local Chinese restaurant, all nod when asked if they support Mr. Trump. "We want a leader," says Jeff Taylor, a local coal-mine operator who says he has slashed his workforce by one-third since 2012. "Trump may be the one with enough backbone to pull back some of the government" regulations. 
That is a widespread sentiment among ordinary workers, too. Why is there such faith that a billionaire will deliver for the working class? 
One such local, coal entrepreneur Arthur "Smiley" Ratliff, was Trump-like in his tastes, recalls Ms. Smith, the novelist. He drove in a black Rolls Royce, his face black with coal dust, and lived in a fortresslike mansion. He used Ming vases for umbrella stands, say locals who trade Smiley stories, and petitioned Britain to let him build an estate on an uninhabited British island in the South Pacific to be far from Washington regulation. (The British government declined.) 
It isn't a big leap from Mr. Ratliff, who died in 2007, to Mr. Trump and his Boeing 757 airplane with gold-plated fixtures, Ms. Smith says. 
Mr. Bostic, the former coal miner, says he had enough of mining after being laid off three times in 13 months. He and his wife opened the T-shirt shop last month a few miles from Grundy and sell uniforms for church groups and softball teams. He says he isn't making near the $90,000 he did as a coal-mine "blaster," an explosives expert. 
The pay cut forced him to default on his timeshare condo, he says, and he struggles to make payments on the $300,000 house he bought in 2011 when his mining job seemed secure. He sells buffalo jerky on the side and is training to become a school-bus driver. 
He says he is looking to Mr. Trump for help. If the Republican can turn around the coal industry by slashing regulations, that should pump money into the local economy. 
"Trump for us is the light at the end of the tunnel," says Mr. Bostic's wife, Sara. With him, "there's some hope normalcy will come back to our area." 
Credit: By Bob Davis and Rebecca Ballhaus 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Employment;  
Social conditions & trends;  
Presidential elections;  
Political campaigns;  
Coal mining  
Location  Buchanan County Virginia  
People  Trump, Donald J  
Company / organization  Name: Moodys Investors Service Inc  
NAICS: 522110, 523930, 561450  
Classification  8500: Extractive industries  
9190: United States  
1210: Politics & political behavior  
Title  The Place That Wants Donald Trump Most --- Buchanan County, Va., shows his support and the  
challenge he poses  
Author  Davis, Bob; Ballhaus, Rebecca  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.1  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Apr 18, 2016  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1781478850  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1781478850?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 151 of 376 


Climate Crowd Ignores a Scientific Fraud 
Jenkins, Holman W, Jr.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]16 Apr 2016: A.11. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Climate+Crowd+Ignores+a+Scientific+Fraud&title=Wall+Street+Jou 04-16&volume=&issue=&spage=A.11&au=Jenkins%2C+Holman+W%2C+Jr&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Data developed to show high-dose effect on fruit flies, Muller claimed, showed a proportional low-dose effect. [...]was born LNT -- the "linear no-threshold" model of radiation risk that has become the world's go-to standard for nuclear safety, source of repeated (and unfulfilled) forecasts of thousands of cancer deaths from Chernobyl or Fukushima. 

Full Text 
Green activists, some masquerading as attorneys general of New York and California, want to prosecute Exxon as a climate heretic. Its sin? Saying impeccably true things about climate science: The range of uncertainty is high. Climate models are not the climate, and show themselves to be unreliable guides to future warming. There is a cost-benefit test that policy must pass, and it doesn't. 
The AG case is a spinoff of "investigative" journalism by the Los Angeles Times and Inside Climate News, which we now learn was directly underwritten by climate activists at the Rockefeller Brothers Fund and Rockefeller Family Fund. 
"It's about helping the larger public understand the urgencies of finding climate solutions. It's not really about Exxon," explained a Rockefeller official about a January meeting to coordinate the legal and journalistic attack. 
The journalists involved in this travesty, we're sorry to say, are of the dumber sort -- confused about what science is. But their clottedness comes at a poignant moment. 
Honest greens have always said nuclear power is indispensable for achieving big carbon reduction. James Hansen, the former NASA scientist who has been chaining himself to fences since the first Bush administration, was in Illinois last week lobbying against closure of a nuclear plant. Ditto activist Michael Shellenberger. We might also include Bill McKibben, the Bernie Sanders of the climate movement and shouter of Exxon accusations, who told journalist William Tucker four years ago, "If I came out in favor of nuclear, it would split this movement in half." 
Nuclear (unlike solar) is one low-carbon energy technology that has zero chance without strong government support, yet is left out of renewables mandates. It's the one non-carbon energy source that has actually been shrinking, losing ground to coal and natural gas. 
What keeps nuclear costs high? Why do so many opponents misread the Fukushima meltdown, where 18,000 deaths were due to the earthquake and tsunami, none to radiation exposure, and none are expected from radiation exposure? Why has the U.S. experience of spiraling nuclear construction costs not been matched in South Korea, where normal learning has reduced the cost of construction? 
The answer increasingly appears to be a real scientific fraud. In a series of peer-reviewed articles, toxicologist Edward Calabrese of the University of Massachusetts Amherst shows how a cabal of radiation geneticists in the 1940s doctored their results, and even a Nobel Prize acceptance speech, to exaggerate the health risk from low-level radiation exposure. At the time, Hermann Muller, their leader, was militating against above-ground atomic-bomb testing. "I think he got his beliefs and his science confused, and he couldn't admit that the science was unresolved," Mr. Calabrese told a UMass publication. 
Data developed to show high-dose effect on fruit flies, Muller claimed, showed a proportional low-dose effect. Thus was born LNT -- the "linear no-threshold" model of radiation risk that has become the world's go-to standard for nuclear safety, source of repeated (and unfulfilled) forecasts of thousands of cancer deaths from Chernobyl or Fukushima. LNT is why nuclear plants shoulder huge costs not to protect against accidents, but to protect against trivial emissions. Coal-plants, which don't have to meet U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission rules, actually put out thorium and uranium far in excess of what nuclear plants are allowed to emit. 
We detailed some of the health evidence in a December piece about efforts to wake up the NRC. The New York Times wrote a similar piece last September looking at Japan's foolish evacuation of thousands of Fukushima residents against a nonexistent radiation threat. 
Dr. Carol Marcus, of the UCLA medical school, and two other nuclear-medicine specialists last year petitioned the NRC to re-evaluate its standards. Now the Environmental Protection Agency and several green groups have filed defenses of LNT, which since the 1950s has been adopted not only as Washington's unscientific model of radiation risk, but as the EPA's unscientific model of chemical risk. It shouldn't be overlooked that, for these green groups and the EPA, nuclear is also anathema because it competes with solar and wind. 
OK, science seldom fares well in high-stakes political controversies, but it's bizarre to watch green campaigners attack anybody who questions their thinly based climate predictions, then attack anybody who questions the thinly based science that keeps down our best carbon-free energy choice. 
An environmental reporter with an ounce of independence would actually be doing his or her green friends a favor. Pushing the greenies to confront their nuclear contradictions is probably the best possible way right now of making progress on the climate conundrum. 
(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: An Unwarranted Fear of Low-Level Radiation" -- WSJ April 22, 2016) 
Credit: By Holman W. Jenkins, Jr. 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Health risk assessment;  
Nuclear accidents & safety;  
Science;  
Climate change  
People  Calabrese, Edward  
Title  Climate Crowd Ignores a Scientific Fraud  
Author  Jenkins, Holman W, Jr  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.11  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Apr 16, 2016  
column  Business World  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1781304720  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1781304720?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 152 of 376 


History of a Climate Con 
Jenkins, Holman W, Jr.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]13 Apr 2016: A.11. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=History+of+a+Climate+Con&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=009996 04-13&volume=&issue=&spage=A.11&au=Jenkins%2C+Holman+W%2C+Jr&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The president's power-plant rules, even if climate models are accurate, would affect global temperature a century hence by 0.03 degrees Celsius. 

Full Text 
How's this for an irony? As state attorneys general gin up a fake securities-fraud case against oil companies over climate change, starting with Exxon Mobil Corp., the Securities and Exchange Commission has launched a real securities-fraud investigation of the nation's biggest solar power company. 
SunEdison's sin: allegedly exaggerating its amount of cash on hand to resist an impending bankruptcy. 
A little history is in order to appreciate the cynical nadir of climate politics in the U.S. You wouldn't know it from media coverage, but the closest the U.S. Congress came to passing a serious (if still ineffectual) cap-and-trade program was during the George W. Bush administration in early 2007. Then, within days of Barack Obama's election in 2008, Al Gore announced a revelation: the "climate crisis" no longer required such unpleasant, de facto energy taxes. The problem could be solved with painless handouts to green entrepreneurs. 
Hooray! Everybody loves a handout. The activist duo Michael Shellenberger and Ted Nordhaus noted that the shift in Mr. Gore's thinking was "highly significant." "He knows that cap-and-trade, and most any new regulation, would raise energy prices -- a political nonstarter during a recession." 
A proposed oil tax swiftly disappeared from the Obama transition website. With control of all three branches of government in hand, the imminent climate threat to humanity suddenly appeared not so urgent after all -- passing a "signature" health-care law did. 
Democrats, it turned out, were in favor of climate root canal only when Republicans were in charge. 
OK, this is old hat, but what should be striking is how thoroughly the climate lobby has played along. Its main function today has become stringing up apostates as a distraction from Democratic unwillingness to propose policies costly enough that they would actually influence the rate of increase of atmospheric greenhouse gases. 
Take the Exxon prosecution, promoted by the attorneys general of New York and California and a host of their Democratic brethren. Though the case is never meant to be adjudicated in a courtroom, suppose it were and suppose a jury somehow found for the plaintiffs. How would Exxon pay a securities-fraud judgment? By selling oil and gas. 
Attacking Exxon is not climate policy making; it's a distraction. Its purpose is to foster an atmosphere conducive to the Gore-Obama green pork-barrel strategy. 
Or take Sheldon Whitehouse, the U.S. senator who has gained notoriety lately by urging the Justice Department to launch a RICO investigation of climate skeptics. He doesn't urge his Rhode Island constituents to adopt the life-style sacrifices that would actually reduce fossil-fuel consumption. Mr. Whitehouse's devotion to understanding climate science at all is so microscopic that, in his latest letter of complaint to the Journal, the only science he cites is a Gallup poll. 
Or take Paul Krugman's columns in the New York Times insisting that if you don't vote Democratic this fall, the planet is doomed. The colossal unmentionable is that climate activism today exists to promote the Democratic agenda, whatever it may be this week. One thing it isn't, though, is advocacy of, or even mention of, policies that might actually alter the course of climate change. 
The president's power-plant rules, even if climate models are accurate, would affect global temperature a century hence by 0.03 degrees Celsius. His fuel mileage rules, though costly to Detroit and a life-support for Tesla, would have even less effect. 
The renewable subsidies that SunEdison exploited so recklessly that it may soon be in chapter 11 are good for killing birds. The non-binding Paris agreement Mr. Obama signed in December explicitly stipulates that India and China, the two fast-growing emitters, will keep on emitting as if no agreement had been signed. 
We could go on -- not that, under any circumstances, a serious whack at global greenhouse emissions was ever in the cards. 
Last week, Oxford University scientists said that, to avoid serious climate risks, all building of gas and coal plants must stop this year -- which isn't going to happen. Does this mean you should despair over a possible human effect on climate? No. Climate models are highly uncertain and suggest a broad range of possible outcomes; the media reports only the worst-case scenarios. And left out is the most important variable of all, the near-certainty of large changes in how humans produce and distribute energy over the next 100 years thanks entirely to the independent advance of technology. 
In the meantime, if the attorneys general are looking for real disclosure violations to prosecute, the place to start is the climate lobby's support -- expressed in increasingly vituperative and vicious terms -- for subsidies and handouts in the name of climate change that will have no impact on climate change. 
Credit: By Holman W. Jenkins, Jr. 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Criminal investigations;  
Securities fraud  
Location  United States--US  
People  Whitehouse, Sheldon  
Company / organization  Name: Securities & Exchange Commission  
NAICS: 926150;  
Name: SunEdison  
NAICS: 221114, 221118;  
Name: Department of Justice  
NAICS: 922130  
Title  History of a Climate Con  
Author  Jenkins, Holman W, Jr  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.11  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Apr 13, 2016  
column  Business World  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1780441013  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1780441013?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2019-08-26  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 153 of 376 


Business & Energy (A Special Report) --- The Sierra Club's View: Why Michael Brune is optimistic about combating climate change 
Gold, Russell.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]13 Apr 2016: B.6. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Business+%26amp%3B+Energy+%28A+Special+Report%29+--­+The+Sierra+Club%27s+View%3A+Why+Michael+Brune+is+optimistic+about+combating+climate+change&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2016-04­13&volume=&issue=&spage=B.6&au=Gold%2C+Russell&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The reduction in coal is coming from a variety of factors, a significant part of which is the low price of natural gas. The Sierra Club has been opposed to nuclear power since the late '60s for concerns about safety, storage of radioactive waste, etc. 

Full Text 
Are government and industry doing the right things to fight climate change? What can they do better? 
To get an insider's view of the question, The Wall Street Journal's Russell Gold spoke with Michael Brune, executive director of the Sierra Club. 
What follows are edited excerpts of their discussion. 
MR. GOLD: I saw a speech that you gave on YouTube, and you started your speech by asking the audience whether they felt governments and corporations were going to be 

able to respond to the challenges of climate change. Are you optimistic? 
MR. BRUNE: I am. We're confronted with two realities which are going to happen almost no matter what. Climate change will continue to get worse. We're also seeing the 

growth of clean energy. We're starting to see renewables displace fossil fuels, starting with coal. That will accelerate almost no matter what. I'm optimistic because I think that 
together we can solve some of our biggest problems. I see countries coming together on a very large scale to address what's being done. 
MR. GOLD: You introduced civil disobedience to the Sierra Club. Why was that necessary? 
MR. BRUNE: We engaged in civil disobedience on the Keystone XL Pipeline because at the time, it was an important issue substantively and symbolically, and it needed to be 

elevated. It needed to have more attention, more focus on it. We may engage in civil disobedience on voting-rights issues because we depend on a healthy and thriving democracy in order to address environmental issues. 
MR. GOLD: Shouldn't we be celebrating natural gas because it's allowing companies to replace coal? You're not a fan of natural gas. 
MR. BRUNE: The reduction in coal is coming from a variety of factors, a significant part of which is the low price of natural gas. So our goal is to phase out of coal as quickly as 
possible and use as little natural gas as we can in doing so. 

The climate impact of burning gas is half that of coal. However, the amount of fugitive methanes that come both at the well head and from transmission and distribution is so significant that it narrows the difference between gas and coal. 
MR. GOLD: The Sierra Club has said for many years it's opposed to nuclear. Why can't you support nuclear? 
MR. BRUNE: The Sierra Club has been opposed to nuclear power since the late '60s for concerns about safety, storage of radioactive waste, etc. If there was an actual debate 
about nuclear power in this country, and if you had financiers who really were going to put serious money behind nuclear power, then it would be a different question. It is not 
an active question. There is not a serious proposal, particularly in the U.S., to scale up nuclear power in any way that would make a big difference. I don't agree that nuclear 
power is a real solution. 

MR. GOLD: You probably heard Sheryl Corrigan of Koch Industries say that Charles Koch believes climate is changing and humans have a part in it. What are your thoughts on 

that? 
MR. BRUNE: Koch Industries and the Koch brothers have been funding some of our toughest opponents. They have been putting millions of dollars behind candidates or on 
issues that are making it difficult to solve the world's biggest problem. 

The fact that we have one executive who makes a statement that shows that this is part of a problem to be solved, it's great. I'd love to see the $900 million that the Koch brothers are putting into this election not go into funding candidates who don't believe climate change exists, who don't think that humans have any role and are spending huge amounts of money destroying the world that my kids are growing up into. 
Credit: By Russell Gold 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Natural gas;  
Series & special reports;  
Climate change  
People  Brune, Michael  
Company / organization  Name: Sierra Club  
NAICS: 813312  
Title  Business & Energy (A Special Report) --- The Sierra Club's View: Why Michael Brune is  
optimistic about combating climate change  
Author  Gold, Russell  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.6  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Apr 13, 2016  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Interview  
ProQuest document ID  1780440304  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1780440304?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 154 of 376 


Business & Energy (A Special Report) --- The Future for Coal: Lynn Good on why coal is being phased out, and what needs to be done to replace it 
Harder, Amy.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]13 Apr 2016: B.7. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Business+%26amp%3B+Energy+%28A+Special+Report%29+--­+The+Future+for+Coal%3A+Lynn+Good+on+why+coal+is+being+phased+out%2C+and+what+needs+to+be+done+to+replace+it&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660& 04-13&volume=&issue=&spage=B.7&au=Harder%2C+Amy&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
What would you say is the single biggest driver dragging down the U.S. coal industry? MS. GOOD: If you think about the discovery of shale and the low natural-gas prices that we've experienced from the harvesting of that resource, it's had an extraordinary impact on the economy at large and certainly on the generation of electricity. 

Full text 
Lynn Good is the chief executive of Duke Energy Corp., the U.S.'s largest power producer and one of the country's biggest coal burners. With global leaders increasingly calling for the phaseout of coal due to environmental concerns, she sat down with Wall Street Journal energy reporter Amy Harder to discuss the extent to which that is economically feasible. 
Here are edited excerpts. 
MS. HARDER: In 2005 Duke Energy's coal generation was nearly 60% of its [power generation] mix. Today that's down to 35.3%. And in 2030 you predict it will be 23%. That's a big drop in a short time. What is driving the shift? 
MS. GOOD: Over the last 10 years, we have had a target of lowering our carbon emissions consistently through investment. The transition has largely been driven by investment in natural gas. So if I go back to 2005, no natural gas. And then today it represents about 25% of our mix. We've also been investing in renewables since 2007 and today operate one of the largest renewable fleets and have driven North Carolina into a leading position in solar penetration. 
MS. HARDER: What would you say is the single biggest driver dragging down the U.S. coal industry? 
MS. GOOD: Natural gas has been a game changer. If you think about the discovery of shale and the low natural-gas prices that we've experienced from the harvesting of that resource, it's had an extraordinary impact on the economy at large and certainly on the generation of electricity. I would also put a weakening economy generally and world­wide as another driver around coal. At one point over the last many years there was a lot of hope and interest in the exporting of coal. Of course, that hasn't materialized. 
MS. HARDER: Do you ever envision a future, whether it's 2050 or 2100, when coal will be next to 0% electricity here in the U.S.? 
MS. GOOD: I certainly think we're moving in that direction. Under the rules that exist today, you can't build a new coal plant without capture and sequestration [of carbon], and at this point we don't have a viable technology that is economic for that. So you're talking about extending lives of existing plants, and those economic decisions become very challenging when gas is cheap and renewables are available. 
MS. HARDER: President Obama and the secretary-general of the U.N. have called climate change the biggest problem facing humanity. As the CEO of a major utility company, do you believe you share in a responsibility to address climate change? 
MS. GOOD: I look at my responsibility as serving about 20 million people in the U.S. with affordable, reliable, safe and clean energy. And so you think about that responsibility 24/7, these lights have to work all the time and have to work for 20 million people. And so certainly environmental responsibility is a part of my responsibility, but so is affordability, so is reliability, so is safety. And so you look at all of those things together, and I think I have to be at that intersection. 
MS. HARDER: Southern Co. CEO Tom Fanning had some pretty critical words for carbon capture and sequestration in the last panel. He said he doesn't think it's going to be economic here in the U.S., given cheap natural-gas prices. Do you agree? 
MS. GOOD: The enthusiasm around carbon capture and sequestration was probably greater before the shale-gas discovery and the low prices were so prevalent. And I would step back again to the pragmatism of an investment in carbon capture and sequestration, or retiring an [existing coal-fired] plant and building natural gas and renewables. I also think that as a nation we haven't invested as much in research and development around [carbon capture] as we have other technologies. 
MS. HARDER: How much are you investing in carbon capture and sequestration now? 
MS. GOOD: Modest investments. 
MS. HARDER: And where do you see that going over the next 10 years? 
MS. GOOD: I would say staying about the same or going down. 
MS. HARDER: Former NRG Energy CEO David Crane said that if we're going to achieve this 2-degree limit in temperature rise that the scientists say we need, carbon capture needs to succeed. Do you agree? 
MS. GOOD: I believe that for us to meet the broader aspiration around climate, carbon capture is going to be important, and I would also argue that nuclear is important. Of course there will be technological breakthroughs -- I think battery storage is something that we all have some hope in. We have probably six or eight pilots ourselves, trying to put battery technology to work with renewables and other parts of our system. 
But I think we need to recognize that running a 24/7 power system requires 24/7 power. And the options we have today for 24/7 power are nuclear, natural gas and coal. And if you think about coal as being phased out over time, you think about natural gas as still being a fossil fuel that is emitting carbon, albeit at a more modest rate, and nuclear having the challenges that it has with building and financing new plants, I would agree that if we're going even deeper and deeper in carbon reductions that larger-scale 24/7 solutions need to be a part of the discussion. 
MS. HARDER: What about carbon capture for natural gas? Is that something that's even remotely on your mind or in some of the R&D that's going on? 
MS. GOOD: It is. 
MS. HARDER: How costly would something like that be? 
MS. GOOD: We are still studying that. I don't have a quotable figure for that, but actually I think there are a few people in the audience who are looking closely at that technology. As we think about the transition from coal to natural gas, I think putting carbon capture and sequestration into that analysis will be a natural evolution. And I think there's some infrastructure that's going to go with that -- capture and movement to geological formations or others that would make that feasible. We have done some studies with the Energy Department on where the geology works. Not very good in the Carolinas, better in the Midwest. So that has to be part of the discussion, as well. 
Credit: By Amy Harder 

(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Natural gas;  
Carbon sequestration;  
Series & special reports;  
Coal industry  
Location  United States--US  
People  Good, Lynn  
Company / organization  Name:  Duke Energy Corp  
NAICS:  221122  

Title  Business & Energy (A Special Report) --- The Future for Coal: Lynn Good on why coal is being  
phased out, and what needs to be done to replace it  
Author  Harder, Amy  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.7  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Apr 13, 2016  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  

ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Interview  
ProQuest document ID  1780440279  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1780440279?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 155 of 376 


Business & Energy (A Special Report) --- Two Utilities, Two Approaches: Thomas A. Fanning and David Crane on their different strategies for cleaner energy 
Cherney, Elena.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]13 Apr 2016: B.8. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Business+%26amp%3B+Energy+%28A+Special+Report%29+--­+Two+Utilities%2C+Two+Approaches%3A+Thomas+A.+Fanning+and+David+Crane+on+their+different+strategies+for+cleaner+energy&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=009996 04-13&volume=&issue=&spage=B.8&au=Cherney%2C+Elena&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Energy efficiency, we just announced a really important acquisition, PowerSecure International [a provider of distributed generation, giving power customers more control over the energy they use]. Overall, I would tell you that I believe this country, the world, will win the fight against climate change by taking the carbon out of fossil fuels before it wins the war against climate change by making the world an all-renewable plus battery-storage place. 

Full text 
Utilities have gone through huge dislocations and disruptions in recent years, and big financial bets are being made as they position themselves for energy markets of the future. Wall Street Journal Global Energy Editor Elena Cherney talked to two key players with divergent approaches: Thomas A. Fanning, chief executive of Southern Co., and David Crane, who until December was CEO of NRG Energy Inc. Edited excerpts of their conversation follow. 
MS. CHERNEY: You both took very different approaches to transitioning to cleaner energy. David, you told me you were fired by your board at NRG for being too radical. You also said that you wished you had been more radical. What did you mean? 
MR. CRANE: There are roughly 55 power companies in the U.S. that produce most of the generation. In 2006, when I became very sensitized to the carbon issue, I looked at the carbon intensities of the 55 companies. We were 54th, or second-most carbon intense, and the one that was ahead of us, Mirant, we ended up buying. 
I went to the board and said, "Look, it's unlikely that the world's going to allow us to [continue to] do this." 
So we started on renewables. We tried to build a nuclear plant, because I'm a big believer in nuclear as a zero-carbon source. But I found that you had to talk about that to motivate an employee base that wants to basically do what it has always done. So one of the reasons I was so outspoken was to motivate the employee base, and ultimately that made me a bit of a controversial figure. 
MS. CHERNEY: Tom, you took a different approach. You described it as a more natural evolution. 
MR. FANNING: I take my management group through this exercise from time to time where we really try to think about how much change is out there. It is up to us, as leaders, to kind of see around the corners. 
We've moved in our energy production: Coal, before I got there, 70%; coal this year will be 28%. Gas back then was 15%, 16%; now it is going to be about 50%. We've developed our own technology that produces less carbon than natural gas. Renewables, we're moving forward in a big way on solar, particularly, and some wind. Energy efficiency, we just announced a really important acquisition, PowerSecure International [a provider of distributed generation, giving power customers more control over the energy they use]. 
The whole notion is to understand really how this model will evolve and try to skate to where that puck will be. If you do it in kind of a transparent, orderly way, you don't have this notion of disruption. You have a notion of natural evolution. 
MS. CHERNEY: Also, you're building a nuclear facility. Not a lot of people are doing those things. Where do you see that mix going? 
MR. FANNING: All of the above. Nuclear, we are leading the renaissance in new nuclear. If the country is serious about carbon, we need nuclear in the mix. It's really hard to do nuclear. Our deal, if you include all capital costs and all financing costs: $15 billion over 10 years. Coal, we all know that coal is under pressure. We developed this technology where we can actually consume coal, gasify it, capture 65% of the carbon and move on. We've taken our lumps on that deal. That deal, probably, because gas is so cheap right now, isn't going to happen elsewhere in the U.S. But I'm darn sure that there's a great market for it around the world. 
MS. CHERNEY: David, can carbon capture be made to work commercially in the U.S.? 
MR. CRANE: First, Tom and Southern Co. should be commended for what they've done with nuclear and with pre-combustion carbon capture. But they've essentially demonstrated that those two technologies are not cost effective. We cannot afford for post-combustion carbon capture not to be cost effective. If we're going to win the fight against climate change, it must succeed in that regard when you include India and China plants. I don't think post-combustion carbon capture, as it's done, with a technology that's borrowed from the chemical industry, is going to get it done. 
We need a disruptive change. Overall, I would tell you that I believe this country, the world, will win the fight against climate change by taking the carbon out of fossil fuels before it wins the war against climate change by making the world an all-renewable plus battery-storage place. 
MR. FANNING: Nuclear absolutely needs to be part of the portfolio, and in the portfolio it's cost effective. Let me explain that. The energy from our nuclear plant that we're building in Georgia is going to be the equivalent price of about $1 per million BTU. Now, gas is really cheap right now. The query is how long will gas remain at that price. 
Think about stock ownership as you build your own personal portfolios. You buy some stocks that are really secure. Then you want to have some stuff that's kind of risky and more volatile. Maybe it's got a long-term return potential. 
When you think about constructing an energy portfolio that has got to achieve the balance of clean, safe, reliable, affordable, it is absolutely clear. Now, there's a temporal feature here. It will change over time. But it is a dominant solution to build nuclear -- relatively high capital cost, very cheap energy, zero volatility, essentially. 
It looks like coal is winding down. Renewables become much more important. I've always been a fan of solar. The bridge in the middle is gas. Every one of those has a different risk/return profile, a different capital and energy mix, and as a portfolio, they work. 
MS. CHERNEY: David, do you agree? 
MR. CRANE: In the sense that he has to get his cost basis passed through the public service commissions of various states, arguments like he just made about diversification of portfolio work. In the competitive [market for energy] diversification of portfolio doesn't necessarily work. Energy has usually been a winner-take-all business. And right now in the U.S., the winner-take-all is natural gas. 
One of the things we should be talking about is the role the utilities are playing in snuffing out distributed generation. The premise [put forth by Tom] is that a central grid system is only as strong as its weakest link. We're talking about an economy we built in the U.S. built off 130 million wooden poles. It's shocking that we could be this obsolete. 
But every utility in the country except one, Green Mountain Power in Vermont, is fighting the market penetration of people making their own electricity. That's why, if you have an industry that's based, "Oh, we're gonna give this company a monopoly and hope that they do the right thing by the customer," that's not going to be the best approach. 
MR. FANNING: Tom and I are great friends, we really are. He's dead wrong. Southern Co., actually our largest subsidiary, Georgia Power, was named by the solar industry as the investor-owned utility of the year by the solar industry. You want to buy rooftop solar? I am glad to sell it to you. 
Credit: By Elena Cherney 

(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Electric utilities; Natural gas; Carbon sequestration; Series & special reports; Energy industry  
Location  United States--US  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Southern Co 221112, 221122;  
Name: NAICS:  NRG Energy Inc 221122  
Title  Business & Energy (A Special Report) --- Two Utilities, Two Approaches: Thomas A. Fanning and David Crane on their different strategies for cleaner energy  
Author  Cherney, Elena  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.8  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Apr 13, 2016  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  

Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Interview  
ProQuest document ID  1780440271  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1780440271?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 156 of 376 


Business & Energy (A Special Report) --- The Future May Be Clear; The Path Isn't 
Cook, Lynn.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]13 Apr 2016: B.5. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Business+%26amp%3B+Energy+%28A+Special+Report%29+--­+The+Future+May+Be+Clear%3B+The+Path+Isn%27t&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2016-04­13&volume=&issue=&spage=B.5&au=Cook%2C+Lynn&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Can natural gas replace enough coal-fired power generation to clear the air of carbon emissions? 

Full Text 
Weaning the world off coal, doubling down on renewables and investing in breakthrough technologies that can help stop climate change were hotly debated topics last week at The Wall Street Journal's ECO:nomics conference in Santa Barbara, Calif. 
At the annual gathering, environmentalists and energy experts sparred over lofty environmental goals as well as the current realities of fossil-fuel demand. Can natural gas replace enough coal-fired power generation to clear the air of carbon emissions? The Sierra Club's Michael Brune thinks not. 
Energy banker Jeffrey Holzschuh of Morgan Stanley predicted solar power will overtake wind. But he warned that better battery storage of electricity is needed to truly cement green power in the U.S. energy mix. 
Koch Industries defended its environmental record. And U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said that while the Paris climate talks held in December were flawed, they were the best outcome that could be hoped for and a necessary step toward combating the top threat to humanity. "This is not the end," he said. "This is the beginning." 
Credit: By Lynn Cook 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Fossil fuels; 
Series & special reports; 
Climate change; 
Coal industry 


Location 	United States--US 
Title 	Business & Energy (A Special Report) --- The Future May Be Clear; The Path Isn't 
Author 	Cook, Lynn 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	B.5 
Publication year 	2016 
Publication date 	Apr 13, 2016 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1780440198  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1780440198?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 157 of 376 


Kicking the Oil Business When It's Down 
Tice, Paul H.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]05 Apr 2016: A.13. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Kicking+the+Oil+Business+When+It%27s+Down&title=Wall+Street+ 04-05&volume=&issue=&spage=A.13&au=Tice%2C+Paul+H&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
[...]the effect will be mainly felt on bank earnings, not on liquidity or solvency, and the losses will not pose a risk of contagion to the rest of the financial system. Since the 2008 financial crisis, U.S. banks have slowly been converted into the equivalent of regulated utilities. 

Full Text 
Crude oil prices have dropped precipitously over the past 18 months, and while there has been a recent uptick, the energy industry is struggling. Despite laying off workers, cutting capital budgets and refinancing debt, 45 U.S. oil and gas companies have filed for bankruptcy since the beginning of 2015, with more expected to follow. 
Despite the strategic importance of oil and gas production to the U.S. economy and even its national security, however, the Obama administration has continued to push its climate-change agenda, leading to new rules, regulations and restrictions on fossil fuels. The net effect will be to raise companies' operating costs and limit their financing options. 
The Environmental Protection Agency proposed new rules in 2015 to curtail methane emissions from new oil and gas wells and is now readying additional restrictions on existing wells. Also last year, the Interior Department announced new disclosure requirements and operating procedures for hydraulic fracturing ("fracking") on federal lands. Then came the State Department's gratuitous rejection of the Keystone XL pipeline in November. In his recently released fiscal 2017 federal budget, President Obama proposed a confiscatory $10.25 per barrel tax on oil -- when West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude was trading at $30 per barrel. 
Most damaging is the regulatory pressure being applied through the banking system, which has dampened the credit available for energy companies. Oil and gas development is capital-intensive and marked by a depleting resource base and a continuing need for external financing, particularly when commodity prices are low. Access to credit is the industry's Achilles' heel. 
Bank loans backed by the value of oil and gas reserves are the cheapest type of financing and the main source of liquidity for upstream drilling programs. The value of the loan collateral -- and the company's line of credit -- is redetermined semiannually -- typically every October and April -- to reflect real-time commodity prices and current company and industry fundamentals. In other words, these asset-backed loans are effectively callable every six months, thus limiting a bank's exposure to loan losses or defaults. 
Nonetheless, since oil prices started to decline in mid-2014, the Federal Reserve, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. have all increased their regulatory scrutiny of banks in the energy-lending business. This is allegedly due to concerns over the adequacy of banks' capital and the potential for losses spreading through the financial system. 
However, by any measure, the risk to the banking system from energy loans appears manageable. In the 2015 Shared National Credit (SNC) review conducted by bank regulators, the amount of oil and gas commitments across the federally supervised banking system totaled $276.5 billion or only 7.1% of aggregate SNC loans. For perspective, this is much less than the $1.3 trillion of student loans currently outstanding, which have a delinquency rate of roughly 20%-25%. Apart from a handful of energy-focused regional banks, most U.S. banks have less than 5% of their total loan portfolios concentrated in energy. 
Furthermore, most bank loans to oil and gas companies are made to investment-grade companies with diversified operations and strong balance sheets. For smaller high-yield and private energy companies, bank loans are almost always secured by a first lien, which makes them much more likely to be repaid in the case of a default. 
Despite the facts, all three federal agencies have been publicly warning banks about their exposure to the oil and gas industry, the press coverage of which has only served to increase the correlation between WTI futures and bank share prices. This will lead to further cuts in financing for many cash-starved energy companies, turning a challenging credit situation into a potential liquidity crisis. Current estimates are that banks will reduce most energy company credit lines by roughly 20%-40% this month, compared with an average reduction of 5%-10% last fall. 
There will be losses on loans to energy companies, and banks will no doubt increase their loss provisions. But the effect will be mainly felt on bank earnings, not on liquidity or solvency, and the losses will not pose a risk of contagion to the rest of the financial system. 
Since the 2008 financial crisis, U.S. banks have slowly been converted into the equivalent of regulated utilities. So it is fair to ask whether the climate-change ideology of the Obama administration is driving the current aggressive approach of bank regulators toward energy loans and, in turn, if this will have a chilling effect on bank lending to the oil and gas industry going forward. 
Many large U.S. banks -- including J.P. Morgan Chase, Bank of America, Citigroup and Wells Fargo -- have recently announced that they will no longer finance coal mines or coal-fired power generation. Crude oil and natural gas production may not be far behind. 
Mr. Tice is a senior managing director and head of the Energy Capital Group at USCA Asset Management LLC. 
Credit: By Paul H. Tice 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Energy economics;  
Crude oil prices;  
Banking industry;  
Regulation of financial institutions;  
Energy industry  
Location  United States--US  
Classification  8510: Petroleum industry  
8110: Commercial banking services  
4310: Regulation  
9190: United States  
Title  Kicking the Oil Business When It's Down  
Author  Tice, Paul H  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.13  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Apr 5, 2016  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1778340392  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1778340392?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 158 of 376 


Climate Financial Risks Examined 
Steinhauser, Gabriele.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]01 Apr 2016: C.2. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Climate+Financial+Risks+Examined&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00 04-01&volume=&issue=&spage=C.2&au=Steinhauser%2C+Gabriele&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
"If we don't get the policy environment right today, it won't just be the shareholder of insurance companies and banks who will regret this," said Steve Waygood, chief responsible-investment officer at the investment arm of U.K. insurer Aviva PLC and one of the task force's members. Because there are no unified disclosure rules, it is difficult to put a number on financial companies' exposures to carbon-heavy assets -- and the risks associated with them. 

Full Text 
BRUSSELS -- Regulators around the globe are researching potential risks to financial stability from a failure to contain climate change or a sudden collapse in the value of fossil-fuel assets. 
Institutions such as the Bank of England, Financial Stability Board and European Systemic Risk Board are examining how banks, insurers and pension funds would cope if policies designed to reduce carbon-dioxide emissions led to a sharp drop in the share price of oil, gas and coal companies. 
They are looking at new rules to disclose exposures to both stocks and bonds in such companies, conducting "stress tests" based on different climate scenarios or even requiring additional capital buffers. 
The regulators' concerns rest on scientific assessments that much of the world's known fossil-fuel reserves would have to stay underground if governments want to limit global warming to two-degrees Celsius above preindustrial levels. 
If they aim to contain average temperature increases to 1.5 degrees, as set out in an international climate deal sealed in Paris in December, the carbon budget would shrink even more. 
That has triggered fears that a poorly managed switch to less-polluting energy sources, such as solar or wind power, could cause selloffs of fossil-fuel companies and broader economic problems caused by energy shortages. 
"A wholesale reassessment of prospects, especially if it were to occur suddenly, could potentially destabilize markets, spark a procyclical crystallization of losses and a persistent tightening of financial conditions," Mark Carney, governor of the Bank of England, said in a recent speech. 
Mr. Carney, who also presides over the Financial Stability Board, an international body that monitors risk in the global financial system, has emerged as one of the leading voices in the debate on climate risk. Last year, the Group of 20 major economies asked the FSB to scope out potential vulnerabilities in the financial system linked to climate change. 
In response, the FSB set up an industry task force that is working out standards for companies to disclose their exposure to climate risks. Its first report will be published Friday. 
"If we don't get the policy environment right today, it won't just be the shareholder of insurance companies and banks who will regret this," said Steve Waygood, chief responsible-investment officer at the investment arm of U.K. insurer Aviva PLC and one of the task force's members. 
Because there are no unified disclosure rules, it is difficult to put a number on financial companies' exposures to carbon-heavy assets -- and the risks associated with them. Estimates used by the European Systemic Risk Board suggest that banks, pension funds and insurers based in the European Union hold more than 1 trillion euros (about $1.13 trillion) in equity and debt of fossil-fuel companies and that major stock indexes could fall as much as 20% if assets are revalued in line with a two-degree scenario. 
Credit: By Gabriele Steinhauser 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Climate change; 
Securities markets 


Classification 	9180: International 

3400: Investment analysis & personal finance 


Title 	Climate Financial Risks Examined 
Author 	Steinhauser, Gabriele 
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  C.2  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Apr 1, 2016  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1777414251  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1777414251?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 159 of 376 


U.S. News: Reversal on Atlantic Drilling --- Obama administration pulls sale of offshore oil lease in Southeast; energy firms critical 
Harder, Amy.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]16 Mar 2016: A.3. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+Reversal+on+Atlantic+Drilling+--­+Obama+administration+pulls+sale+of+offshore+oil+lease+in+Southeast%3B+energy+firms+critical&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2016-03­16&volume=&issue=&spage=A.3&au=Harder%2C+Amy&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The Interior Department estimates that there are almost 3.5 billion barrels of recoverable oil off the Atlantic Coast and more than 30 trillion cubic feet of natural gas, though energy industry officials say there could be much more. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration said Tuesday that it was withdrawing a planned oil and natural gas lease sale along the southeastern Atlantic coast, a significant reversal that prompted cheers from coastal communities and environmentalists but criticism from oil companies and some state leaders. 
In the Interior Department's latest offshore leasing blueprint, the government removed the one lease sale it had last year initially planned to offer in 2021 in the waters between Virginia and Georgia. 
Interior Secretary Sally Jewell said the department acted in part out of concerns by the Defense Department that drilling could interfere with its military operations along the coast. Pentagon officials had submitted comments earlier in the process expressing their reservations. 
"We heard from many corners that now is not the time to offer oil and gas leasing off the Atlantic coast," Ms. Jewell said. "When you factor in conflicts with national defense, economic activities such as fishing and tourism, and opposition from many local communities, it simply doesn't make sense to move forward with any lease sales in the coming five years." 
The Interior Department estimates that there are almost 3.5 billion barrels of recoverable oil off the Atlantic Coast and more than 30 trillion cubic feet of natural gas, though energy industry officials say there could be much more. 
Most major oil companies reached for comment deferred to the American Petroleum Institute, the U.S.'s largest oil and gas trade group, which criticized the move. 
"The decision appeases extremists who seek to stop oil and natural gas production, which would increase the cost of energy for American consumers and close the door for years to creating new jobs, new investments and boosting energy security," said Jack Gerard, head of the group. 
The move is part of a broader push by President Barack Obama to pursue an ambitious climate-change legacy, which also includes the first-ever federal rules limiting carbon emissions on power plants and a host of other environmental regulations clamping down on pollution from the oil, natural gas and coal industries. 
The Interior Department's blueprint, required by law every five years, governs offshore leasing for oil and natural gas drilling in federal waters between 2017 and 2022, including the Arctic Ocean and Gulf of Mexico. 
Three lease sales planned for the federal waters around Alaska, which have also been controversial, along with 10 in the Gulf of Mexico, remain in the plan. Those sales could be removed before the proposal is finalized, but no new sales can be added. 
Obama administration officials say they intend to complete the plan, which is subject to a 90-day public comment period, before the next president is sworn into office. If the plan isn't complete by Mr. Obama's departure on Jan. 20, 2017, the plan's final touches -- or, potentially, a complete rewrite or withdrawal -- would be left to the next president. 
Democratic candidates Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders have opposed offshore drilling, especially along the Atlantic Coast, while Republican presidential candidates, including Sens. Ted Cruz of Texas and Marco Rubio of Florida, support increasing oil drilling, including offshore. 
Still, the politics of offshore drilling don't always divide so neatly along partisan or ideological lines. Some conservative communities along the coast join environmental groups in opposing drilling, for example, citing the importance of tourism to their economies. 
"This is a victory for people over politics and shows the importance of old-fashioned grass-roots organizing," said Jacqueline Savitz, a vice president at Oceana, a conservation group that helps organize coastal communities to oppose offshore drilling. "It will prevent oil spills and coastal industrialization." 
Some Democratic politicians, including Gov. Terry McAuliffe and Sen. Mark Warner, both of Virginia, have supported offshore drilling if their states could get a cut of the eventual royalty revenue. In statements Tuesday, Messrs. Warner and McAuliffe struck cautious notes. 
"Today's announcement is an opportunity to work with the Department of Defense to address the concerns they have raised, and to ensure that any offshore energy exploration is coupled with a revenue-sharing agreement that benefits our commonwealth," Mr. McAuliffe said. 
Credit: By Amy Harder 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Natural gas;  
Petroleum industry;  
Coasts;  
Energy industry;  
Offshore drilling;  
Energy policy  
Location  Virginia; Georgia; Atlantic Ocean; United States--US  
People  Obama, Barack  
Classification  9190: United States  
8510: Petroleum industry  
1520: Energy policy  
Title  U.S. News: Reversal on Atlantic Drilling --- Obama administration pulls sale of offshore oil lease  
in Southeast; energy firms critical  
Author  Harder, Amy  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.3  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Mar 16, 2016  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1773381429  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1773381429?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 160 of 376 


Business News: Venture Seeks to Cut Emissions --- Canadian pilot project grabs carbon-dioxide particles from air to reduce gas discharges 
Dawson, Chester.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]03 Mar 2016: B.8. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Business+News%3A+Venture+Seeks+to+Cut+Emissions+--­+Canadian+pilot+project+grabs+carbon-dioxide+particles+from+air+to+reduce+gas+discharges&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2016-03­03&volume=&issue=&spage=B.8&au=Dawson%2C+Chester&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
SQUAMISH, British Columbia -- A project backed by Bill Gates and a Canadian oil baron is attempting to turn back the clock on greenhouse gas emissions by snatching carbon-dioxide particles out of thin air. 

Full Text 
SQUAMISH, British Columbia -- A project backed by Bill Gates and a Canadian oil baron is attempting to turn back the clock on greenhouse gas emissions by snatching carbon-dioxide particles out of thin air. 
The initiative, by Calgary, Alberta,-based Carbon Engineering Ltd., holds the prospect of powering vehicles using fuel reconstituted from tailpipe emissions, while helping to reduce greenhouse gases. And it comes as policy makers and scientists look at such "carbon-negative" technologies as a potential solution to the challenge to industrial growth coming from limiting emissions. 
In November, the last phase of Carbon Engineering's test facility started up after it began last summer taking carbon dioxide from the air in this coastal town 40 miles north of Vancouver. A giant fan on the site of a former chemical plant sucks up briny Pacific air and blows it over lye-soaked plastic sheets, which snag carbon dioxide for processing and purification. 
Known as direct-air capture, this experimental method of reducing emissions differs from other techniques that focus on carbon absorption at the point of release, typically a power plant or refinery. Critics, though, call it a waste of resources, and even some experts who support the concept in theory say it will remain impractical for at least another decade because of the significant cost and technical hurdles. 
To capture the same amount of carbon as a smokestack scrubber on a coal plant, a direct-air capture plant would need a site the size of 15 football fields, according to a recent National Academy of Sciences report. That would require a substantial up-front investment in land, construction and materials costs. It also requires more energy -- in the form of electricity or natural gas -- to operate than comparable carbon-capture techniques attached to gas- or coal-fueled power plants. 
David Keith, an applied physics professor at Harvard University, established Carbon Engineering in 2009 with seed money from a handful of philanthropists, including Mr. Gates and Murray Edwards, the billionaire chairman of Canadian Natural Resources Ltd., one of Canada's largest oil-sands mine operators. 
The investors provided about two-thirds of the capital to fund the 8.5 million Canadian dollar ($6.3 million) pilot, with the remainder coming from Canadian federal and provincial government subsidies. 
The Canadian company is one of a handful of startups hoping to commercialize direct-air capture techniques. 
The United Nation's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change said in a report last year that removingcarbondioxide from the atmosphere was a tantalizing future option but it remains unproven. 
"It can be done. The question is, at what cost?" said Robert Socolow, a professor emeritus at Princeton University and co-director of the school's Carbon Mitigation Initiative. "It's cheaper just to stop putting it in the atmosphere at the source," he said. 
Carbon Engineering hopes its pilot will demonstrate the technology's economic viability and pave the way for larger-scale commercial projects in North America. The Squamish program processes more than 1 million cubic meters of air a day to produce a metric ton of carbon dioxide -- a fraction of the estimated 3,000 tons a day the company says a large-scale plant would yield. 
The government of British Columbia on Wednesday announced C$3.75 million in funding for the design and construction of an "air-to-fuels" plant in Squamish that will use the atmospheric carbon captured by Carbon Engineering to produce synthetic gasoline or diesel. 
"Scaling it up is very low risk," Carbon Engineering's chief executive, Adrian Corless, said. "The individual parts we use aren't new, just the way we've knitted them together is." 
The pilot itself, which is meant to demonstrate the technology, isn't carbon negative. Electricity off the grid powers the fan, natural gas is used to burn the pellets and the CO2 is released back into the atmosphere. 
The National Academy of Sciences report published in February 2015, which was partially funded by the Energy Department and other U.S. government agencies, called direct-air capture an "immature technology" that required up to 10 times more energy than capturing CO2 from the flue gas of gas- or coal-fueled power plants, where concentrations are up to 300 times higher. 
Direct-air capture advocates counter that reducing emissions isn't enough, and that the world must take steps to remove carbon dioxide already in the atmosphere. 
Credit: By Chester Dawson 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Greenhouse effect; Gases; Engineering; Industrial plant emissions; Natural gas; Coal-fired power plants; Emissions; Carbon dioxide; Pilot projects  
Location  Calgary Alberta Canada; British Columbia Canada  
People  Gates, Bill  

Company / organization 
Title Business News: Venture Seeks to Cut Emissions --- Canadian pilot project grabs carbon-dioxide particles from air to reduce gas discharges 
Name:  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd  
NAICS:  211111, 213112;  
Name:  Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change  
NAICS:  928120, 541712;  
Name:  Harvard University  
NAICS:  611310;  
Name:  National Academy of Sciences  
NAICS:  541711;  
Name:  Carbon Engineering Ltd  
NAICS:  541712  


Author  Dawson, Chester  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.8  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Mar 3, 2016  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1769886606  

Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1769886606?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 161 of 376 


U.S. News: Climate Agenda on the Line --- Carbon rule's stay marks unusual blow to the president's environmental push 
Harder, Amy; Kendall, Brent.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]11 Feb 2016: A.3. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+Climate+Agenda+on+the+Line+--­+Carbon+rule%27s+stay+marks+unusual+blow+to+the+president%27s+environmental+push&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2016-02­11&volume=&issue=&spage=A.3&au=Harder%2C+Amy%3BKendall%2C+Brent&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The Supreme Court's stay of the rule limiting carbon emissions by power plants -- which will remain in place while courts consider more than 30 lawsuits -- is the third instance since last fall of federal courts have halting major new environmental rules. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- The Supreme Court's unexpected move this week to block a federal carbon-emissions rule was a significant blow to President Barack Obama's environmental agenda, underscoring the unusual way in which that ambitious agenda is now in a state of suspended animation. 
Mr. Obama's administration has pushed rules on everything from emissions to waterways to fracking. But the courts have begun to question whether it has exceeded its legal authority, and their final decisions will determine whether Mr. Obama's environmental legacy will be monumental or more modest. 
The Supreme Court's stay of the rule limiting carbon emissions by power plants -- which will remain in place while courts consider more than 30 lawsuits -- is the third instance since last fall of federal courts have halting major new environmental rules. 
Courts have blocked an Interior Department rule setting stricter standards for hydraulic fracturing on federal lands and an Environmental Protection Agency rule that would bring smaller waterways and wetlands under federal protection. The regulations are in precarious positions less than a year before Mr. Obama leaves office. 
"When the pendulum starts to swing toward executive authority, there's going to be a real likelihood that the courts are going to pull back a little bit," said Jim W. Rubin of Dorsey & Whitney LLP, a former environmental lawyer with the Justice Department. The president's environmental legacy "will be determined by what survives court scrutiny." 
Behind these cases is a core battle between the executive and legislative branches. Republicans say Mr. Obama, in taking unilateral actions, is acting like a king and not a president. The White House responds that Congress's refusal to act on critical issues like climate change -- or even recognize it as a problem -- leaves Mr. Obama little choice. 
While the high court's action is far from final, it raises questions about a landmark international climate-change accord reached last year in Paris that Mr. Obama sees as the centerpiece of his environmental legacy. 
Mr. Obama has rolled out nearly two dozen major rules and scores of smaller ones during his tenure, aimed at clamping down on pollution from oil, natural gas and coal, and at compelling industries to shift toward renewable energy sources such as wind and solar. 
Similar clashes over alleged presidential overreach are taking place on other hot-button issues. The Supreme Court this spring will consider the president's plan to defer deportation for millions of illegal immigrants. A lower court is considering a suit by Republicans alleging the Obama administration defied Congress in how it paid for part of the Affordable Care Act. 
White House officials said they are confident the courts will uphold the EPA rule, and they suggested Mr. Obama won't stop pursuing executive actions despite legal setbacks. 
"Litigation over this administration's policies, and in particular Clean Air Act standards, is nothing new," said Dan Utech, deputy assistant to the president for energy and climate change. "In litigation the pathway is not always smooth. But at the end of the day, we prevail. And we are confident we will do so here. The Clean Air Act gives EPA clear authority -- and legal responsibility -- to regulate carbon pollution from the power sector." 
The administration's recent legal difficulties follow notable earlier successes. The EPA won a major ruling in 2012 when an appeals court upheld rules setting greenhouse-gas emission standards for automobiles. That court also blessed a central EPA finding that greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide are a danger to public health and likely have been a driver of global warming over the past half-century. The Supreme Court chose not to review those findings. 
The tide seemed to turn in mid-2014 as courts began airing concerns about executive authority. The justices chastised the EPA for seeking to expand a clean-air permitting program to include greenhouse gases without clear congressional authorization. 
The latest EPA rule would require a 32% cut in power-plant carbon emissions by 2030, based on 2005 emissions levels. 
The Supreme Court considers several hard-to-meet criteria for stay requests, including whether the challengers will likely win their case and whether the denial of a stay will result in irreparable harm. 
Supporters of both sides said they couldn't recall another instance when the justices intervened to stay a new regulation whose legality had yet to be fully evaluated by a lower court. "It clearly indicates that five justices have grave doubts about EPA's legal authority to do this rule," said Thomas Lorenzen of Crowell & Moring LLP, a former Justice Department lawyer who defended earlier EPA rules. 
Credit: By Amy Harder and Brent Kendall 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Emissions;  
Carbon;  
Industrial plant emissions;  
Hydraulic fracturing;  
Climate change  
Location  United States--US  
People  Obama, Barack  
Company / organization  Name: Congress  
NAICS: 921120;  
Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS: 924110;  
Name: Department of Justice  
NAICS: 922130  
Title  U.S. News: Climate Agenda on the Line --- Carbon rule's stay marks unusual blow to the  
president's environmental push  
Author  Harder, Amy; Kendall, Brent  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.3  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Feb 11, 2016  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1764280082  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1764280082?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2019-08-26  
Database  US Newsstream  


document 162 of 376 


U.S. News: Court Blocks Obama's Power-Plant Rule 
Kendall, Brent; Harder, Amy.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]10 Feb 2016: A.2. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+Court+Blocks+Obama%27s+Power­Plant+Rule&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2016-02­10&volume=&issue=&spage=A.2&au=Kendall%2C+Brent%3BHarder%2C+Amy&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The EPA rule is aimed at compelling utilities to shift away from coal-fired power plants, which have been the bedrock of U.S. electricity generation for decades, toward such renewable sources as wind and solar, and to a lesser extent toward natural gas and nuclear power. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- A divided Supreme Court on Tuesday temporarily blocked the Obama administration's initiative to limit carbon emissions from power plants, dealing a potentially significant blow to a rule that is the cornerstone of President Barack Obama's efforts to slow climate change. 
The court, in a brief order, granted emergency requests by officials of mostly Republican-led states and business groups to delay the rule while they challenge its legality. 
Although the court's order is temporary and isn't a ruling on the merits, it indicates the conservative majority harbors misgivings about the Obama administration plan. It 
signals that the rules could run into trouble in the courts, which could hamper the administration's ability to follow through on U.S. commitments in the Paris climate deal. 

The court's action, which divided the justices along ideological lines, came as a surprise to many observers, because the court has strict criteria for granting stays. And the 

Environmental Protection Agency rules, issued last summer, have yet to be evaluated by lower-court judges. 
The EPA rule is aimed at compelling utilities to shift away from coal-fired power plants, which have been the bedrock of U.S. electricity generation for decades, toward such 
renewable sources as wind and solar, and to a lesser extent toward natural gas and nuclear power. 

"We are thrilled that the Supreme Court realized the rule's immediate impact and froze its implementation, protecting workers and saving countless dollars as our fight against 

its legality continues," said Patrick Morrisey, the Republican attorney general of coal-dependent West Virginia. 
"It is the first time that the Supreme Court has actually stayed a regulation," said Jeff Holmstead, an EPA official under President George W. Bush and a lawyer at Bracewell & 
Giuliani who represents clients suing the agency over the rule. 

White House spokesman Josh Earnest said the administration disagreed with the court. "We remain confident we will prevail on the merits," he said. "At the same time, the administration will continue to take aggressive steps to make forward progress to reduce carbon emissions." 
More than 30 lawsuits have been filed against the EPA rule, raising issues under the Clean Air Act that have been little explored by the courts. 
More than two dozen states challenging the rule argued the regulation should be halted in the interim or else they would need to immediately begin enacting laws, revising 
regulations and devoting large sums of money and manpower to comply with the mandate. 

Industry groups said that, without a stay, scores of power plants would be forced to shut down in the short term, harming power producers and their customers. The regulation would require a 32% cut in power-plant carbon emissions by 2030, based on emissions levels of 2005. The EPA said that a stay of its rule was unnecessary, because it was legal and being implemented slowly. The states don't have to comply until 2022. 
The court's five conservative justices controlled the outcome. The court's four liberal members indicated they would have denied the stay and left the regulation in place during 
the litigation. 
None of the justices explained their reasoning in the one-page order, which blocked the regulation until the case is litigated by an appeals court and reaches the high court. 

Oral arguments at the appeals level are scheduled for June, with the possibility of a ruling later in the year, on time to be heard in the Supreme Court's 2016-2017 term. 
The extent of the stay's immediate impact is unclear. While the compliance deadline isn't until 2022, the EPA set an initial deadline of this September for states to submit a plan 
to eventually comply with the rule, or otherwise explain why they want an extension of one to two years. The EPA has required that all final plans be submitted no later than 
2018. 

One utility lawyer said the stay order likely means states won't have to submit plans if they don't want to by the initial September deadline. 

"States almost definitely will not have to submit plans or extension requests this September," said Brian Potts, a partner at Foley & Lardner LLP based in Wisconsin. "Some 
states will probably keep working on plans. But many others will immediately put their pens down and wait for further guidance from the court." 
The ultimate outcome of the case likely won't be decided until the next president is in office. Should the rule survive in the courts and a Republican be elected president, a GOP 

administration would face hurdles in abandoning the rules. 
Very few final rules have ever been repealed by an administration. To repeal a rule, you have to write, and legally justify, a new regulation explaining why you are getting rid of 
the earlier one, a process that could take years and would be unlikely to withstand legal scrutiny, experts say. 

Jess Bravin contributed to this article. Credit: By Brent Kendall and Amy Harder 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Power plants;  
Supreme Court decisions;  
Industrial plant emissions  
Location  United States--US  
People  Obama, Barack  
Company / organization  Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS: 924110  
Title  U.S. News: Court Blocks Obama's Power-Plant Rule  
Author  Kendall, Brent; Harder, Amy  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.2  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Feb 10, 2016  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1764093287  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1764093287?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 163 of 376 


There Is a Big Free-Market Demand for Coal 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]05 Feb 2016: A.10. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=There+Is+a+Big+Free­Market+Demand+for+Coal&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2016-02­05&volume=&issue=&spage=A.10&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The International Energy Agency predicts coal usage will increase world-wide at least through 2035 and that coal will surpass oil as the world's leading energy source within the next five years. 

Full Text 
I disagree with the letter writers of Jan. 20 and Feb. 1 who say that coal is dying and that the free market killed it. The International Energy Agency predicts coal usage will increase world-wide at least through 2035 and that coal will surpass oil as the world's leading energy source within the next five years. Coal consumption is rising everywhere except in the U.S. Even in Europe, green energy has become so expensive that coal usage is increasing there as well. If the free market is phasing out coal, why do we need laws restricting its usage? 
In addition, more than a billion people have yet to gain access to electricity and its contribution to higher living standards. Indoor pollution from wood fires kills four million people a year. Some of us believe it is more humane to give these people access to inexpensive, coal-fired electricity rather than worry about some fanciful global-warming disaster 50 years hence. 
David Pearse 
Tucson, Ariz. 
We're nowhere near "the mopping-up phase" regarding coal usage. I want clean air as much as the next guy, but I also want the power to stay on in my home. Alternatives to coal such as solar and wind are only temporary infusions to the power grid, as the wind isn't constant nor is the sun. Natural gas is still a fossil fuel. Like it or not, coal will continue to power our grid for some time as there simply is no alternative that is as cheap, plentiful and dependable. 
Mark Kaspar 
Steward, Ill. 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Free markets; 

Coal industry 


Location 	Europe 
Company / organization 	Name: International Energy Agency 

NAICS: 926130, 928120, 541720 


Title 	There Is a Big Free-Market Demand for Coal 
Author 	Anonymous 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.10 
Publication year 	2016 
Publication date  Feb 5, 2016  
Section  Letters to the Editor  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1762620803  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1762620803?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 164 of 376 


Obama vs. the Manatees 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]25 Jan 2016: A.12. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Obama+vs.+the+Manatees&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=009996 01-25&volume=&issue=&spage=A.12&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service this month proposed a new rule to crack down on predator control in Alaska, claiming it wants to better protect wildlife on national refuges. 

Full Text 
The U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service this month proposed a new rule to crack down on predator control in Alaska, claiming it wants to better protect wildlife on national refuges. If only the Obama Administration cared as much about the protected critters that are getting in the way of its climate-change agenda. 
President Obama's Clean Power Plan imposes new rules to force the closure of coal-fired power plants in the name of climate change. Among those most likely to be shut down are the Big Bend Power Station and the Crystal River Plant in Florida. Problem is, both plants have been designated as primary warm-water refuges for manatees -- listed as endangered in the 1960s and now considered "threatened." 
One threat to manatees is a plunge in water temperature, which causes lesions, gastrointestinal disorders, infections and death. The Fish & Wildlife Service, which runs a manatee recovery plan, estimates that two-thirds of manatees rely on coal plants that discharge heated water. Many plants are required to have Manatee Protection Plans, which are embedded in their federal Clean Water Act permits. 
Section 7 of the Endangered Species Act is clear: Federal agencies are required to consult with Fish & Wildlife or the National Marine Fisheries Service if an agency action -- such as a new rule -- "may affect" (good or bad) a federally protected species. Yet the Administration's draft climate regulation in January 2014 didn't mention consultation over the manatees. GOP Senators David Vitter and Jim Inhofe noticed and in March 2014 sent EPA a letter demanding answers. 
The EPA's reply is that since the rule requires states to implement the generator shutdowns, this isn't a federal issue, and so the consultation requirement doesn't apply. Never mind that states are acting only because the feds are forcing them. 
House Natural Resources Chairman Rob Bishop last year uncovered documents showing the EPA knew of the consultation problem and worked to evade its responsibilities. One email from an EPA employee in 2014 notes that questions about consultation are "lurking" and that the agency may need to "speak informally" to someone at Fish & Wildlife. 
Fish & Wildlife director Dan Ashe told Congress in March that EPA had not consulted the service, though "there's a very direct and obvious impact and relationship between that water discharge and those manatees." Mr. Ashe has since walked back that statement, and Fish & Wildlife is now deferring to the EPA. It would never be this accommodating to a private company. 
The Administration knows this is legally risky business. In 2011 a federal appeals court blocked a Bureau of Land Management regulation on grazing, rejecting the agency's claim that it would have "no effect" on species. But the White House and EPA are willing to risk a legal rebuke on manatees on the bet that its climate regime will be too entrenched by the time a court considers it. Mr. Obama is in a rush to get his new climate machinery in place so a future President will find it hard to dismantle. 
The Endangered Species Act is a flawed law that needs an overhaul, but Democrats have consistently blocked efforts to reform it. As long as it's the law of the land, they should have to live with it like everyone else. 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Endangered & extinct species; 
Wildlife conservation; 
Shutdowns; 

Climate change; 
Coal-fired power plants; 
Editorials -- Wildlife conservation; 

Editorials 


Location 	Alaska; Florida; United States--US 
People 	Bishop, Rob (politician); Ashe, Dan; Vitter, David; Obama, Barack 
Company / organization 	Name: Republican Party 

NAICS: 813940; 

Name:  Congress  
NAICS:  921120;  
Name:  Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS:  924110;  
Name:  Bureau of Land Management  
NAICS:  924120;  
Name:  National Marine Fisheries Service  
NAICS:  926150  

Title  Obama vs. the Manatees  
Author  Anonymous  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.12  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Jan 25, 2016  
column  REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  1759301107  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1759301107?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2019-01-02  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 165 of 376 


Obama's Coal Last Rites 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]23 Jan 2016: A.12. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Obama%27s+Coal+Last+Rites&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=009 01-23&volume=&issue=&spage=A.12&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Democrats may not care about their destructive regulatory footprint because there aren't many electoral votes for them in West Virginia and Wyoming, and three-quarters of the remaining coal jobs are non-union. [...]is another industry unpopular with progressives targeted for political extinction. 

Full Text 
U.S. coal producers are staggering under Environmental Protection Agency regulations and low natural gas prices. Now the Obama Administration is giving the industry its last rites by halting new coal leases on federal lands where mining is still profitable. 
Interior Secretary Sally Jewell has declared a three-year moratorium on coal leases pending an agency review to "ensure the federal coal program delivers a fair return to American taxpayers and takes into account its impacts on climate change." Interior may raise coal's 12.5% royalty payment, which is the same rate as oil and natural gas. About 40% of coal is mined on federal land, mostly in Wyoming's rich Powder River Basin, Utah and Colorado. 
The plunging price of natural gas and EPA regulations on power-plant emissions have punished the domestic coal market. U.S. coal production and electric generation have declined by about 20% since 2008, and a half dozen coal companies have filed for bankruptcy in the last year, including Arch Coal this month. Yet mining in the thick-seamed Powder River Basin remains economical due to its geology. Its coal is also low in sulfur and thus cleaner. Wyoming produces twice as much coal as West Virginia and Kentucky and sells it at an 80% lower price. 
Powder River Basin exports to Asia can out-compete coal from China, Indonesia and Australia despite higher transportation costs. Yet less than 5% of Powder River Basin coal is exported due to inadequate infrastructure. Climate activists are trying to obstruct new coal terminals in Washington and Oregon that could expand export capacity. 
The Administration's moratorium also targets exports. Higher royalty payments will reduce profitability, and Ms. Jewell is setting up a Democratic successor to make the shutdown permanent. Once current leases expire in 20 years or so, U.S. coal mining would cease. So much for the claims that coal's troubles are solely due to market forces. 
Hillary Clinton has proposed paying reparations to ravaged coal communities for worker retraining and public works. About 10,000 coal jobs -- some 10% of the industry workforce -- were lost in 2013, according to the Energy Information Administration's most recent data. 
Democrats may not care about their destructive regulatory footprint because there aren't many electoral votes for them in West Virginia and Wyoming, and three-quarters of the remaining coal jobs are non-union. Thus is another industry unpopular with progressives targeted for political extinction. 
(See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: The President's Coal Policy Follows Precedent, Is Smart" -- WSJ Feb. 1, 2016) 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Coal mining; 

Coal industry; 

Natural gas prices; 
Federal regulation; 
Editorials -- Coal industry; 

Editorials 


Location 	Powder River Basin 
Title 	Obama's Coal Last Rites 
Author 	Anonymous 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.12 
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Jan 23, 2016  
column  REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Opinions, Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  1759084167  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1759084167?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2019-01-02  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 166 of 376 


U.S. News: Early Win For EPA In Carbon Rule Fight 
Kendall, Brent; Harder, Amy.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]22 Jan 2016: A.3. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+Early+Win+For+EPA+In+Carbon+Rule+Fight&title=Wa 01-22&volume=&issue=&spage=A.3&au=Kendall%2C+Brent%3BHarder%2C+Amy&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The agency is seeking to cut carbon-dioxide emissions from hundreds of power plants across the U.S. More than two dozen states and an array of utilities, coal producers and business groups argued they faced immediate burdens from complying with the EPA regulation, which was issued in August. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- A federal appeals courton Thursdaydeclined to temporarily block a key Obama administration environmental rule to limit carbon emissions from power plants, 
rejecting requests by states and companies that wanted the regulation halted while they challenged it in court. 
The action is an early victory for the Environmental Protection Agency in what is likely to be a yearslong legal battle over a cornerstone of President Barack Obama's climate 
plan. The agency is seeking to cut carbon-dioxide emissions from hundreds of power plants across the U.S. 

More than two dozen states and an array of utilities, coal producers and business groups argued they faced immediate burdens from complying with the EPA regulation, which 

was issued in August. 
The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit denied their requests to stay the regulation during the litigation.The court said the challengers "have not satisfied 
the stringent requirements" for a stay. 

The regulation requires a 32% cut in power-plant carbon emissions by 2030 based on 2005 levels. It is designed to force the utility industry, the largest source of U.S. carbon emissions that contribute to climate change, to shift toward cleaner energy sources. 
More than 30 lawsuits have been filed since October challenging the EPA's authority across a range of grounds, some of them little explored by the courts. 
The states challenging the rule, including West Virginia and other coal-reliant states, argued the regulation should be halted in the interim or else they would need to 
immediately begin enacting laws, revising regulations and devoting large sums of money and manpower to comply with the EPA mandate. 

Industry groups said that without a stay, scores of power plants would be forced to shut down in the short term, harming power producers and other businesses that rely on 

them. 
West Virginia Attorney General Patrick Morrisey, a Republican, said that while he was disappointed in Thursday's order, he believes the coalition will win the lawsuit. He said the 
state was considering appealing to the Supreme Court for a stay. 

"The court did not issue a ruling on the merits, and we remain confident that our arguments will prevail," said Mr. Morrisey, whose state is leading the legal challenge. 
The EPA didn't immediately respond to a request for comment. The White House praised the court's decision to not block the rule. 
Credit: By Brent Kendall and Amy Harder 

(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Federal court decisions; 
Carbon; 
Industrial plant emissions 


Location 	West Virginia 
People 	Obama, Barack 
Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 

NAICS: 924110 


Title  U.S. News: Early Win For EPA In Carbon Rule Fight  
Author  Kendall, Brent; Harder, Amy  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.3  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Jan 22, 2016  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1758849379  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1758849379?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 167 of 376 


Notable & Quotable: Leonardo DiCaprio 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]21 Jan 2016: A.11. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Notable+%26amp%3B+Quotable%3A+Leonardo+DiCaprio&title=Wall+ 01-21&volume=&issue=&spage=A.11&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The project will contain a world-class luxury hotel resort centered on health, wellness and sustainability, off-the-grid 'living homes' a research station on climate change and habitat impacts, leading restoration programs and more. 

Full Text 
From actor Leonardo DiCaprio's remarks at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, upon accepting an award for his environmental work, Jan. 19: 
Last week President Obama told those who continue to deny the irrefutable science behind climate change that they will find themselves increasingly lonely in a swell of voices calling for action. But studies also show us that those who deny the reality of climate change will also find themselves less economically successful. We simply cannot afford to allow the corporate greed of the coal, oil and gas industries to determine the future of humanity. Our planet cannot be saved unless we leave fossil fuels in the ground where they belong. Twenty years ago we described this problem as an addiction. Today we possess the means to end this reliance. . . . If we all do our part and act with bold leadership, we can achieve major meaningful progress. It is not only an inevitable transition, it is also imperative for the future of our planet. 
From the website promoting Leonardo DiCaprio's Blackadore Caye resort in Belize; scheduled to open in 2018, the development will reportedly include 48 houses selling for between $5 million and $15 million: 
Blackadore Caye, a Restorative Island is one of the world's most exclusive island retreats, located in beautiful Belize behind the world's second largest barrier reef. Originally acquired by Leonardo DiCaprio with the vision to create the future home of the greenest luxury development ever built -- this vision is now a reality. Blackadore Caye is the World's first truly restorative island development -- a development completely powered by renewable energy and designed to increase the biological health of species on the island and in the waters around it. 
The project will contain a world-class luxury hotel resort centered on health, wellness and sustainability, off-the-grid 'living homes' a research station on climate change and habitat impacts, leading restoration programs and more. 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject Notable & quotable (wsj) 
People DiCaprio, Leonardo 
Title Notable & Quotable: Leonardo DiCaprio 
Author Anonymous 
Publication title Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages A.11 
Publication year 2016 
Publication date Jan 21, 2016 
Publisher Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Feature  
ProQuest document ID  1758953106  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1758953106?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 168 of 376 


U.S. News: Obama Orders Coal Leasing Pause 
Harder, Amy; Miller, John W.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]16 Jan 2016: A.3. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+Obama+Orders+Coal+Leasing+Pause&title=Wall+Stre 01-16&volume=&issue=&spage=A.3&au=Harder%2C+Amy%3BMiller%2C+John+W&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
"The United States has to lead by example in fighting climate change, and that should start with the way that we manage the coal and other fossil-fuel resources on public lands that belong to the American people," said Sen. Edward Markey (D., Mass.), who has been pushing for the government to overhaul the program for more than 30 years. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- The Interior Department said Friday it is halting most new leases for coal mining on federal lands and launching a review that could result in higher costs for coal companies and greater scrutiny of carbon emissions. 
The action, President Barack Obama's latest move to address climate change, is another blow to the beleaguered coal industry. Coal production on federal lands represents about 40% of all U.S. output. 
Interior Secretary Sally Jewell said her agency's review will encompass the environmental, public health and taxpayer impact of the coal leasing program. The process is expected to take three years, so that is how long the moratorium on new leasing is expected to last. 
Reaction on both sides of the issue was swift and strong. Republicans and business groups called the announcement Mr. Obama's latest front in his "war on coal," noting that the new president who takes office next year could reverse the policy. 
"There seems to be no limit to the number of job-crushing regulations, executive orders and insults Secretary Jewell and President Obama will throw at America's middle class," said Sen. John Barrasso (R., Wyo.), whose state is home to 80% of all coal mined on public lands. 
Environmentalists and many Democrats cheered the news, which they said was the latest evidence that the movement to reduce fossil-fuel use is succeeding, following Mr. Obama's rejection of the Keystone XL pipeline. 
"The United States has to lead by example in fighting climate change, and that should start with the way that we manage the coal and other fossil-fuel resources on public lands that belong to the American people," said Sen. Edward Markey (D., Mass.), who has been pushing for the government to overhaul the program for more than 30 years. 
Mr. Obama called for the change in coal-leasing policies in his State of the Union address Tuesday. "Rather than subsidize the past, we should invest in the future -- especially in communities that rely on fossil fuels," he said. 
The move is the latest blow to an American coal industry already under pressure from environmental regulations; competition from cheap natural gas; and a lack of global demand for U.S. coal exports. 
The moratorium could start to bite into coal companies' plans after two years as they look for new leases, said James Stevenson of IHS Global Energy. But it is only relevant if the market is strong enough to support expanding coal production, he added. 
"It's definitely a negative for coal, but it won't have any short-term impact," Mr. Stevenson said. "These guys lease a few years in advance, and it's not like they're going to run out of any room to mine." 
Vic Svec, a senior vice president at Peabody Energy Corp., the biggest U.S. coal producer, said the company has more than 20 years of production capacity based in Wyoming's Powder River Basin. Still, he said the pause was "poor policy and a flawed way to accomplish carbon goals," which would be better achieved by clean-coal technology. 
The moratorium won't apply to existing production, and there will be exceptions, such as for coal used in steel production, called metallurgical coal, and for modifications to small leases. 
Credit: By Amy Harder and John W. Miller 
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Coal industry; 

Production capacity; 

Leases; 
Steel production; 
Coal mining 


Location  United States--US  
People  Obama, Barack  
Classification  9190: United States  
8500: Extractive industries  
Title  U.S. News: Obama Orders Coal Leasing Pause  
Author  Harder, Amy; Miller, John W  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.3  
Publication year  2016  
Publication date  Jan 16, 2016  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1757195858  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1757195858?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 169 of 376 


Obama the Unilateral Climate Warrior 
Peiser, Benny.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]22 Dec 2015: A.13. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Obama+the+Unilateral+Climate+Warrior&title=Wall+Street+Journal& 12-22&volume=&issue=&spage=A.13&au=Peiser%2C+Benny&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
In any case, the EU would only be able to make its 40% emissions reduction pledge for 2030 legally binding if all member states accepted new, nationally binding carbon-dioxide targets under a newly negotiated "burden sharing mechanism." 

Full Text 
Amid the media's elation over the United Nations climate deal reached in Paris on Dec. 12, one significant outcome has been overlooked. The European Union failed to achieve its main objective, namely that the agreement adopt carbon-dioxide mitigation commitments that are "legally binding on all parties." 
While this may appear to be a major setback, it liberates Europe from the restrictions of the Kyoto Protocol -- which runs out in 2020 -- and opens the way for more flexible and less damaging policies. 
During the Paris negotiations, European Climate Commissioner Miguel Arias Canete warned that the EU "cannot make the mistake we made in Kyoto" where "all the big emitters were outside the legally binding agreement." For Europe, the Kyoto Protocol has forced EU states to adopt unilateral, and disastrously costly, decarbonization policies. With their manufacturers rapidly losing ground to international competition, governments are increasingly concerned about the threat high energy prices pose to Europe's industrial base. 
The economic damage of unilateral climate policy is now widely acknowledged. In September 2014, then-EU Energy Commissioner Gunther Oettinger warned that "If there is no binding commitment from countries such as India, Russia, Brazil, the U.S., China, Japan and South Korea, whose governments are responsible for some 70% of global emissions," it would be a mistake for EU states to bind only themselves. "If we are too ambitious and others do not follow us, we will have an export of production and more emissions outside the EU." 
EU leaders followed Mr. Oettinger's prudent counsel. While the 28-nation bloc offered to cut carbon emissions by 40% below 1990 levels by 2030, its pledge, announced in October 2014, was and remains conditional on all major emitters adopting legally binding targets. 
In the run-up to the Paris meeting, the EU warned the Obama administration that, in order to avoid another Kyoto-fiasco, any new accord would have to be based on legally binding pledges by all major economies to cut carbon emissions. U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry, clearly concerned about opposition to an international climate "treaty" in the U.S. Senate, ruled out Europe's demand. In contrast to the Kyoto Protocol, the Paris accord is thus based on voluntary pledges of intentions determined and monitored by individual governments in line with their national interests. 
Without legally binding decarbonization caps, there will be strong opposition within the EU to making its own conditional pledges legally binding. Poland and other poor states in Eastern and Central Europe are widely expected to rebel against accepting unilateral policies that have undermined Europe's competitiveness. The governments of Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Romania, Bulgaria, Latvia and Lithuania are opposed to adopting any new carbon targets under these circumstances. Even a number of West European states will be extremely reluctant to continue Kyoto-type unilateralism. 
The new conservative government in Warsaw has already indicated that it will reject the EU's 2030 pledge in the absence of a globally binding climate deal. Poland, which depends on coal for nearly 90% of its power generation, has taken a hard line on EU climate policy after the Law and Justice party took power in October. On Nov. 30, Prime Minister Beata Szydlo said in her opening statement at the Paris conference that Poland would not endorse any policies that are not fair and globally binding. 
EU leaders met in Brussels soon after the Paris agreement, and they called on environment ministers and the European Commission to assess its policy implications. At the next EU summit, in March 2016, conflicting interpretations and assessments will pit Western European against Eastern European member states. It is highly likely that the expected deadlock will delay any decision on the EU's post-Kyoto policy. 
In any case, the EU would only be able to make its 40% emissions reduction pledge for 2030 legally binding if all member states accepted new, nationally binding carbon-dioxide targets under a newly negotiated "burden sharing mechanism." After Paris, the chances of the EU repeating its Kyoto mistake and adopting new unilateral carbon-dioxide restrictions are close to zero. 
Still, the EU is not going to renege on its Paris pledge. A more likely approach from Brussels will be a fudge: EU leaders may agree to make their 40% pledge binding, but not at national levels. 
Such an exit strategy would emulate the EU's renewable-energy policy for 2030, which -- while being called a EU-wide and binding target -- does not oblige members states to adopt any legally binding renewable energy targets domestically. And since the 27% EU-wide renewables target by 2030 is unenforceable, no country will be punished for adopting or failing to meet any target. 
The toothless nature of the Paris agreement finally allows EU member states to abandon unilateral decarbonization policies that have damaged Europe's economies and its international competitiveness. Under such circumstances, the unconditional climate policies of President Obama would be left out in the cold. The U.S. administration has pledged to cut carbon emissions by 26%-28% by 2025, no matter what China, India and the rest of the world do in coming decades. 
In contrast to Europe's conditional pledge, Mr. Obama's go-it-alone policy is unconditional. For the first time, it would appear that Europe's climate policy is moving in a more rational and realistic direction than that of North America. 
Mr. Peiser is the director of the London-based Global Warming Policy Forum. 
Credit: By Benny Peiser 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Carbon dioxide;  
Agreements;  
Environmental policy;  
Climate change  
Location  Paris France  
Company / organization  Name: European Union  
NAICS: 926110, 928120  
Title  Obama the Unilateral Climate Warrior  
Author  Peiser, Benny  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.13  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Dec 22, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1750694093  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1750694093?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 170 of 376 


City News -- Urban Gardner: Power-Line Project Cuts Two Ways 
Gardner, Ralph, Jr.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]16 Dec 2015: A.20. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=City+News+--+Urban+Gardner%3A+Power­Line+Project+Cuts+Two+Ways&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2015-12­16&volume=&issue=&spage=A.20&au=Gardner%2C+Ralph%2C+Jr&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Ned Sullivan, president of Scenic Hudson, an environmental organization, and a member of the Hudson Valley Smart Energy Coalition, says that in the wake of the Paris climate-change agreement -- and perhaps more significant locally, Gov. Andrew Cuomo's order to shift New York state's power to 50% renewable by 2030 -- the power lines would extend the life of coal-fired power plants. 

Full Text 
There are all sorts of challenges to rural homeownership. That's above and beyond being able to afford the taxes, the oil to run your ancient furnace and the electricity costs. 
These include, in no particular order, avoiding getting shot in your own woods by hunters, leaks, exponentially multiplying mice, voracious deer and other costly acts of nature that nonetheless fail to rise to the level of your insurance policy deductible. 
Recently another headache came out of left field. Or rather the northwest corner of the property. That was the possibility that our land would find itself on the proposed route of new power lines. 
We faced the risk that our pristine forest would be split by a highway-size allee to accommodate gleaming towers of metal and high-voltage wires. 
Fortunately, that frightening prospect -- not to mention the potential nosedive in home value -- never came to pass. I'm not entirely sure why. But a wealthy homeowner, whose estate the lines would have encumbered on the way to mine, confided that he'd made it clear to the utility that he could afford to litigate as long as necessary. 
So I can sympathize with Will Yandik, who faces the possibility of even bigger high-voltage lines running through Green Acres Farm, his family's Columbia County farm, marking its 100th anniversary this year. 
It's part of a New York state plan to relieve transmission congestion on the grid, and bring power from upstate, where it's produced, to New York City, where it's needed. The New York State Public Service Commission is expected to vote on whether to move forward with the plan, which would cut through three Hudson Valley counties, on Dec. 17. 
"That's the line," Mr. Yandik said as we looked at the existing power lines that traversed his family's 190-acre farm. "The towers slated for construction would be significantly taller. These are 80-foot towers." 
The farmer -- for the sake of full disclosure, I've been buying his family's homemade jams for decades and my daughter loves their apple sticks -- is affiliated with the Hudson Valley Smart Energy Coalition, which opposes the power-line project. 
The coalition argues that the power lines would run through picturesque hamlets, threatening the historic region's tourist economy. 
The coalition questions the need for the new lines in the first place. Ned Sullivan, president of Scenic Hudson, an environmental organization, and a member of the Hudson Valley Smart Energy Coalition, says that in the wake of the Paris climate-change agreement -- and perhaps more significant locally, Gov. Andrew Cuomo's order to shift New York state's power to 50% renewable by 2030 -- the power lines would extend the life of coal-fired power plants. 
"The DPS has been committed to fully addressing environmental and community concerns through the process," said James Denn, a spokesman for the New York State Department of Public Service, in a statement. "After numerous studies and public meetings, the DPS staff report determined the transmission upgrade is in fact needed to reduce historic congestion on the state's electric grid and the proposed transmission lines would stay entirely within the existing transmission right of way." 
Mr. Yandik, for his part, suggested that the towers already on his property, dwarfing the apple trees in his orchard, are an eyesore that his family has long accepted as a way to contribute to the common good of New York state. "Those towers have been there since the 1930s." 
ralph.gardner@wsj.com 
Credit: By Ralph Gardner Jr. 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Electric utilities; 

Homeowners; 


Electric power lines 
Location  New York  
People  Cuomo, Andrew M  
Company / organization  Name: Scenic Hudson  
NAICS: 813410  
Title  City News -- Urban Gardner: Power-Line Project Cuts Two Ways  
Author  Gardner, Ralph, Jr  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.20  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Dec 16, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1749122616  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1749122616?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 171 of 376 


World News -- China's World: Beijing Warms to Its Role as a Superpower 
Browne, Andrew.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]16 Dec 2015: A.18. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=World+News+-­+China%27s+World%3A+Beijing+Warms+to+Its+Role+as+a+Superpower&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2015-12­16&volume=&issue=&spage=A.18&au=Browne%2C+Andrew&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The threat, as American policy makers see it, is that it will endanger a postwar financial architecture dominated by institutions like the World Bank that tie lending to human rights, environmental, labor and other standards. 

Full Text 
SHANGHAI -- Though it has grown into an economic giant, China rarely takes the initiative to solve the world's big problems, or carry its burdens. 
To Western critics, China's international diplomacy is a mess of contradictions. China craves respect yet shuns responsibility. It wants a seat at the table with rich nations, but can't abandon a developing-economy mind-set. A frustrated President Barack Obama has labeled Beijing a "free rider." 
But change is on the way. From regional security to global finance, China is announcing its intention to lead; the key role it played in the successful conclusion last week of climate-change talks in Paris is just the latest evidence of Beijing's growing ambition. 
In 2005, then-U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Robert Zoellick famously called on China to act as a "responsible international stakeholder." Is this the response that the West has been hoping for? 
In some ways, yes. The agreement in Paris to wind down the fossil-fuel era wouldn't have been possible without the active support of China, the world's largest emitter of greenhouse gases. True, domestic pressure forced Beijing's hand; public outrage over pollution presents a serious threat to the regime. And China's slowing economy has reduced its need to burn coal; skeptics note that has allowed it to make a virtue of necessity by promising to reach peak carbon use by 2030. 
Still, China's backing of the climate deal represented a costly political reversal; it had previously refused to offer hard commitments. 
The broader picture, however, shows a China that is often more ready to upset the status quo than to strengthen it. At times, it is bent on wholesale revisionism. This week, we'll see a prime example of that as executives from the world's leading technology companies stream into China for a World Internet Conference under the theme "An Interconnected World Shared and Governed by All." The gathering will be a platform for China to promote its concept of Internet management that would have precisely the opposite effect -- to fragment the digital world. 
Through its notion of "Internet sovereignty," China justifies its strict censorship regime within the Great Firewall, an idea fundamentally at odds with the Western vision of borderless cyberspace. 
Ahead of that conference, China has put on trial the prominent human-rights lawyer Pu Zhiqiang. His alleged crime: tweeting. The charges against Mr. Pu relate to seven messages he posted to the social-media site Weibo criticizing Beijing's ethnic policies and excoriating officials. 
And there's the rub: Despite their rhetoric encouraging China to share the burden of global management, the U.S. and its Western allies believe that Beijing has little interest in upholding the current status quo based on liberal, rules-based values. 
This explains, at least in part, why Washington over the past year sought to derail the Chinese-led Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, which seeks to plug a dire need in the region for projects such as building ports and highways. The threat, as American policy makers see it, is that it will endanger a postwar financial architecture dominated by institutions like the World Bank that tie lending to human rights, environmental, labor and other standards. 
Mr. Obama gave the game away when he sought to drum up political support at home for a giant Asia-Pacific free-trade deal by declaring: "China wants to write the rules for the world's fastest-growing region. That would put our workers and businesses at a disadvantage. Why would we let that happen?" 
To be sure, there is always been a mix of cooperation and competition in U.S.-China relations. Scott Kennedy, an expert on Chinese industrial policy at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a Washington think tank, thinks fears that China is out to destroy the liberal order are exaggerated. 
"The Chinese are rarely flamethrowers," he writes. 
Nor are they content to be followers. We may not see weapons deployed, but count on rapidly rising tensions as a once reluctant superpower starts demanding to be treated as an equal with the leading nations of the West. 
Credit: By Andrew Browne 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Internet;  
International relations;  
Diplomacy  
Location  Beijing China; United States--US; China  
People  Obama, Barack; Pu Zhiqiang  
Title  World News -- China's World: Beijing Warms to Its Role as a Superpower  
Author  Browne, Andrew  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.18  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Dec 16, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1749110147  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1749110147?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 172 of 376 


England Closes Its last Coal Mine 
Patterson, Scott.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]14 Dec 2015: C.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=England+Closes+Its+last+Coal+Mine&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn= 12-14&volume=&issue=&spage=C.1&au=Patterson%2C+Scott&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Kellingley, operated by U.K. Coal, is the victim of vast market forces that pushed prices for thermal coal -- the kind used to fuel power plants -- to their lowest level in more than nine years at $45.10 a metric ton, according Rotterdam coal futures traded on the Intercontinental Exchange. 

Full Text 
KNOTTINGLEY, England -- The last deep-pit coal mine in the U.K. plans to shut its doors here this week, heralding the end of a centuries-old industry that helped fuel the industrial revolution and build the British Empire. 
The shutdown, targeted for Friday, represents a victory for advocates of reducing carbon emissions even before world leaders reached a landmark agreement in Paris this weekend. It also reflects a glut of energy on world markets, from crude oil to natural gas and coal itself. 
Coal mines have been closing around the world in the past year, from the U.S. to South Africa to the U.K., as prices plunged. But in no country has the industry witnessed such a dramatic fall from grace as in the U.K., where coal production was once seen as the backbone of the nation's industrial economy, the fuel for everything from steamboats to power plants. 
George Orwell, in his 1937 book "The Road to Wigan Pier," wrote: "Our civilisation. . .is founded on coal." 
No longer. Deep-mine coal production in the U.K. hit an all-time low of 3.7 million metric tons in 2014, down from a peak of 217 million tons in 1954, according to the U.K.'s Department of Energy and Climate Change. At the time, about 1,330 deep-pit mines accounted for 95% of the U.K.'s coal production. 
That number will hit zero with this month's closing of U.K. Coal's Kellingley Colliery, which has been operating since 1965 about a 30-mile drive from the historic city of York. A small number of "open-cast" surface mines in the U.K. will continue to produce. 
The Kellingley mine produces 8,000 tons of coal a day and employs 451 people, down from more than 2,000 in the 1970s, the company said. An estimated 30 million tons of coal will remain stranded in the ground. 
"The world has moved on," said David Cross, a librarian at the National Coal Mining Museum for England. "But it's a change in the entire basis of the world economy, not merely in this country." 
The U.K. already imports most of the coal that fuels its power plants, with imports first surpassing local production in 2001. Russia has been the biggest beneficiary of the U.K.'s increased appetite for imported coal, providing 46% of its thermal coal in 2014, according to the U.K. government. Coal supplies roughly one-third of the energy for electricity generation in the U.K., with natural gas and renewable sources making up the rest. 
Kellingley, operated by U.K. Coal, is the victim of vast market forces that pushed prices for thermal coal -- the kind used to fuel power plants -- to their lowest level in more than nine years at $45.10 a metric ton, according Rotterdam coal futures traded on the Intercontinental Exchange. It costs Kellingley about $65 to produce a ton of coal, compared with $45 a ton for imported coal, a company official said. 
In the U.S., as cleaner-burning natural gas replaces coal as a fuel for power plants, coal producers have started shipping their product abroad, weighing on demand for more expensive homegrown coal in the U.K. and elsewhere. And with consumption slackening in China and elsewhere, global coal shipments are falling for the first time in 21 years, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration. 
Investors have been pulling back from coal, in part because of concerns about global warming, helping push coal miners' stocks into free fall. The Church of England in April said it divested GBP 12 million ($18.3 million) worth of thermal-coal and tar-sands assets, citing concerns about climate change. 
The future of coal as a fuel for power was widely discussed in Paris. Environmentalists say the reduction of coal-fired power plants in the European Union has been too slow. The 
U.K. government has proposed to eliminate all coal-fired power plants by 2025. 
To be sure, coal demand is forecast to rise through 2040 unless the world, and China in particular, takes drastic action, according to the International Energy Agency. The coal industry has argued that it is wrongheaded for governments to give up on a plentiful, cheap energy source such as coal and has called for investment in new technologies that would catch carbon at its source, known as carbon-capture storage. 
Meaningful action on the climate will be "more expensive, if not impossible, without widespread deployment of carbon capture and storage technology," said Benjamin Sporton, chief executive of the World Coal Association, citing U.N. statistics. 
Still, the forces aligning against coal have devastated the U.K. industry, where successive governments -- both Conservative and Labour -- have refused to provide meaningful financial support to coal since Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher defeated a miners' strike in the 1980s. 
Shaun McLoughlin, Kellingley's mine manager, said he finds the mine's closure "very disappointing." 
"But also I understand the economics of it. We're living in a free-market world," he said. 
For the miners here, many of whom have spent decades working in dark tunnels to hammer coal from seams hundreds of feet below the ground, the shutdown represents a failure of government policy to support what they see as an important industry for the nation. 
Keith Poulson, who represents the National Union of Mineworkers here, said the damage to the local economy from the shutdown will be "massive." He said the government should have helped support the U.K. mining industry during the big decline in coal prices with subsidies, because prices are likely to shoot up again. 
"We've been asking for some support to get through these troubled times and the door has been slammed in our face," he said. 
Credit: By Scott Patterson 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Shutdowns; 

Coal mining 


Location 	England 
Company / organization 	Name: Kellingley Colliery 

NAICS: 212112; 

Name: UK Coal NAICS: 212112 
Title 	England Closes Its last Coal Mine 
Author 	Patterson, Scott 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	C.1 
Publication year 	2015 
Publication date 	Dec 14, 2015 
column 	Commodities 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 	00999660 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	News 
ProQuest document ID 	1748541840 
Document URL 	https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1748541840?accountid=14902 
Copyright 	(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further 
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Last updated 2017-11-22 
Database US Newsstream 
document 173 of 376 


Climate Deal Leaves Hard Decisions To Countries 
Steinhauser, Gabriele; Dalton, Matthew; Spindle, Bill.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]14 Dec 2015: A.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Climate+Deal+Leaves+Hard+Decisions+To+Countries&title=Wall+Stree 12­14&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Steinhauser%2C+Gabriele%3BDalton%2C+Matthew%3BSpindle%2C+Bill&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id 

Abstract 
Supporters hope the deal will unleash an avalanche of financing and investment from entrepreneurs, companies and international lenders into renewable energy sources, technologies such as electric cars and new ways to capture and store gasses from carbon-intensive fuels such as coal. 

Full Text 
PARIS -- The landmark climate agreement that more than 190 countries struck in Paris over the weekend ushers in a broad, new international effort to wind down the fossil-fuel era. 
But as two weeks of tumultuous negotiations made clear, the pact's success hinges on individual countries making painful choices -- especially in how they produce and consume energy -- that could profoundly shape corporate behavior, financial markets and the global economic landscape. 
Paul Polman, chief executive of European-based consumer-goods giant Unilever PLC and an outspoken environmental advocate, said the deal sent an "unequivocal signal to the business and financial communities, one that will drive real change in the real economy." 
Others, especially from the fossil-fuel industry and some U.S. companies, were more critical or played down the impact of the agreement. Stephen Eule, vice president for climate and technology at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which lobbies Washington lawmakers on behalf of large U.S. companies, said the deal risks damaging the U.S. economy by pushing the country toward more costly energy from renewable sources. 
"The Paris climate conference delivered more of the same -- lots of promises and lots of issues still left unresolved," he said. "The White House's overall domestic strategy of making energy more expensive and less abundant to satisfy international constituencies, many of whom compete against the United States, should worry the business community, American workers and consumers." 
Supporters hope the deal will unleash an avalanche of financing and investment from entrepreneurs, companies and international lenders into renewable energy sources, technologies such as electric cars and new ways to capture and store gasses from carbon-intensive fuels such as coal. 
Still, Benjamin Sporton, chief executive of the World Coal Association, an industry advocate, said the agreement left room for the coal industry to grow, especially with renewed financing for carbon capture and storage to stop emissions from being released into the atmosphere. 
At the core of the agreement, reached Saturday evening in a suburb of Paris, is a collection of voluntary plans submitted by every country to tackle climate change, each reflecting its own economic and political situation. Most of them focus on shifting to renewable energy sources such as solar, wind and, for some, nuclear power and away from carbon-heavy fuels such as coal and oil. 
While the plans lay out a monumental challenge, in aggregate they still don't meet the level of cuts in greenhouse-gas emissions that the agreement itself targets. Much of the success of the deal also lies in implementation years from now, by governments that haven't yet been elected. The accord's requirement to review the ambition of the planned cuts to emissions provides what supporters hope will be an open-ended commitment to deeper cuts. 
The plans aren't legally enforceable -- a condition the U.S. among others insisted upon -- though the deal does legally bind countries to a periodic review process that backers of the accord hope will prod countries to repeatedly raise their emissions-cutting efforts. 
In addition, developed countries have to help provide at least $100 billion annually from a variety of sources after 2020 to help developing countries cut their emissions. 
Getting to that agreement was a bumpy path and an outcome that surprised many participants and observers as ambitions in the negotiating rooms grew. A key alliance that sprang up was among a group of small developing nations led by the tiny Marshall Islands, along with Mexico and Colombia -- and the European Union. All wanted a tough agreement that wasn't only legally binding but also aimed for a more aggressive target in curbing the rise in average global temperatures. 
The conference's stated goal was to limit global warming to below 2 degrees Celsius above preindustrial levels. The islands wanted a goal of 1.5 degrees, arguing that aiming for the 2-degree target wouldn't be enough to prevent them from being wiped out by rising sea levels, based on most scientific forecasts. 
While the U.S. wasn't willing to go that far, it soon joined forces with the alliance, offering to join their calls for a more ambitious target in exchange for acknowledgment that developed nations wouldn't take on the liability for the damage to poor countries caused by rising sea levels and more frequent, more intense storms. 
One U.S. demand shaped the conference before it even began: In a divided Washington, Republicans who control Congress vowed to reject anything the Democratic Obama administration sent there for approval. For Todd Stern, who headed the U.S. negotiating team in Paris, that ruled out any legally binding commitment to cut emissions, a major goal of the Europeans and some other countries. 
That large caveat thrust a top State Department lawyer into the center of the fray. Susan Biniaz was the arbiter on the critical matter of what would or wouldn't require U.S. congressional authorization during the talks. 
The differences were settled in the night between Friday and Saturday, when developed countries agreed to continue leading on financing, leaving large emerging markets like China free to make just voluntary contributions. In return, developing countries accepted regular reviews and checks of their voluntary plans to curb emissions. 
Carol E. Lee and Colleen McCain Nelson contributed to this article. 
Credit: By Gabriele Steinhauser, Matthew Dalton and Bill Spindle 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Emissions; 

Agreements; 

Climate change; 
Summit conferences 


Location 	Paris France 
Title 	Climate Deal Leaves Hard Decisions To Countries 
Author 	Steinhauser, Gabriele; Dalton, Matthew; Spindle, Bill 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.1 
Publication year 	2015 
Publication date 	Dec 14, 2015 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 	00999660 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	News 
ProQuest document ID 	1748541775 
Document URL 	https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1748541775?accountid=14902 
Copyright 	(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further 
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Last updated 	2017-11-22 
Database 	US Newsstream 
document 174 of 376 


The Weekend Interview with John Kasich: John Kasich vs 'Obscurity' 
Rago, Joseph.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]12 Dec 2015: A.11. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=The+Weekend+Interview+with+John+Kasich%3A+John+Kasich+vs+ 12-12&volume=&issue=&spage=A.11&au=Rago%2C+Joseph&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Mr. Gingrich adds that he regards Mr. Kasich as one of the four "Republican visionaries" of the 20th century, in the company of Ronald Reagan, Jack Kemp and Mr. Gingrich. Since he re-emerged as governor in 2010, Mr. Kasich is one of the livelier characters of American politics, and one of the few who retains the capacity to surprise. 

Full Text 
New York -- Ohio hasn't voted for a presidential loser since 1960 and it may decide the 2016 election, at least if the winner is a Republican: The GOP probably can't make the Electoral College arithmetic work otherwise, and no Republican ever has won without carrying the swing state. The sitting two-term governor of Ohio also happens to be running for the White House -- but he says, "You know what my rival is? Obscurity. Nobody knows me." This is strange. 
John Kasich is also the rare candidate-governor who remains popular among voters at home; Quinnipiac puts his job approval at 62%, his highest ever. He has a strong governing record, national experience and bipartisan appeal. On paper, he's formidable. And yet Mr. Kasich is polling nationally in eighth place, at 2%, according to the Real Clear Politics average, and he's fifth in New Hampshire at 7%, having slipped from 13% this summer. So why hasn't he broken out of the Republican scrum? 
That's the one question that defines this anti-orthodox primary season -- and not merely for Mr. Kasich. "I do think that the electorate, no question, is extremely frustrated, and they don't want the same old, same old," says the governor, who dropped by the Journal this week. "But if you get on an airplane, do you want somebody that's never flown a plane before?" 
So what to make of the Donald J. Trump phenomenon? "I don't think it has any depth to it," Mr. Kasich says. "It's sort of like if your football team hasn't won a game, they're 0 and 6 or they're 1 and 7, and you go to the game, and you're sitting there with your buddy, and you say, 'I think they ought to just pick that guy out of the stands. Our quarterback is a bum.' " He could be talking about the Cleveland Browns. 
"I think, I believe, maybe I'm wrong, that experience and a record are going to matter at the end," he continues. "Maybe it won't. Maybe we'll change 100 years of American politics. I don't know." 
By the way, Mr. Kasich adds, "I am just talking to you realistically about how you win. You come into Ohio yelling and screaming, you can't win. You will not win Ohio. I mean, I know Ohio. I won 86 out of 88 counties. I had 26% of the African-American vote, 51% of union households -- and I started off in a war with the unions, right?" 
Mr. Kasich served in the House for 18 years, six as chairman of the Budget Committee, where he was the architect of the 1997 balanced-budget agreement between Bill Clinton and Newt Gingrich. "We would not have balanced the budget without his leadership," the former speaker writes in an email. Mr. Gingrich adds that he regards Mr. Kasich as one of the four "Republican visionaries" of the 20th century, in the company of Ronald Reagan, Jack Kemp and Mr. Gingrich. 
Since he re-emerged as governor in 2010, Mr. Kasich is one of the livelier characters of American politics, and one of the few who retains the capacity to surprise. His far-ranging, free associative and sometimes undisciplined talk often doesn't stop until he's interrupted. 
When Mr. Kasich announced his presidential candidacy in July, he began by joking about the delivery of his twin daughters: He said the obstetrician told him: "Can you shut up? I'm a little busy right now." 
He then riffed -- this is a partial list -- on "this whole business of the American dream," Iwo Jima, his father "John the Mailman," a boat trip to England from Belgium, Islamic State, coal mining, "the Civil War -- you remember reading about it?," recreational narcotics (opposed), John Sununu, Ohio Stadium, a balanced-budget amendment and "the power of very big ideas" -- as well as "two wonderful African-American fellows" he met at a Wendy's, something called the Common Sense Initiative and, finally, "the Lord," who "will record what you've done for another in the book of life." 
This manic energy is physical as well as intellectual. Mr. Kasich's personal-space perimeter requires four or five extra feet than normal to accommodate the gestures, the sweeps, the waves, the pirouettes. He's a human windmill. 
Mr. Kasich is trying to merge traditional conservative economics with his social gospel. "I'm the hardest person to beat," he says, "because I'm the hardest person to label." He frequently speaks of the homeless, the mentally ill and the sick, of drug addicts and ex-cons, of "people living in the shadows." He challenges Republicans to show sympathy for Americans who aren't like them, especially the poor and minorities. "If you look at the record," he says, "the record is loud and clear about who I am, and what I believe, and what my values are, and the conservative nature of how I've solved problems." 
As Mr. Kasich tells it, "because I care about these programs" -- to combat substance abuse, for instance -- "it just sends a message, and it's inadvertent. I didn't do this to do this, because I've taken a lot of grief on all this stuff. It's giving people a sense that maybe this guy cares a little bit about me, maybe he understands some of my problems." 
Mr. Kasich first visited the Journal as governor in July 2011, six months after being inaugurated along with a crop of reform-minded executives across the Midwest. He complained that he wasn't getting Scott Walker-style media credit for his budget, which curbed collective-bargaining and the power of state and local public-employee unions -­a program he said was much stronger than Wisconsin's. Even for Mr. Kasich, the hyperbole was operatic. 
He had sensed, wrongly, that union trustbusting was as much in demand among the buckeyes as the badgers. Mr. Kasich's approval rating dipped as low as 35%, and that fall a ballot question repealing the union reforms passed 62% to 38%. 
Mr. Kasich dismissed this rout as a nonevent when he returned to the Journal in May 2012. He spent his first 20 minutes chronicling, in minute detail, his "exotic animal reform": A suicide in Zanesville had recently let loose dozens of lions, Bengal tigers and bears, plus a baboon, from a private zoo. Mr. Kasich was trying to pass the state's first pet species ownership restriction law. The distance from pushing major labor reforms to pacifying the Ohio veld seemed to indicate the evanescence of his ambitions. 
Then again, Mr. Kasich went on to be re-elected by a two-to-one margin. The Democrats couldn't field a credible candidate, but as he sees it, voters rewarded him for results. 
In his first term, despite the labor defeat, he closed an $8 billion budget deficit, repealed the estate tax, cut income-tax rates, tightened welfare requirements and deregulated. He closed the Ohio corporate-welfare bureaucracy and replaced it with a public-private corporation that is "the best economic development entity, I believe, in the country." The Ohio economy, a basket case under his predecessors, is creating more jobs than the average for Great Lakes states and has diversified into shale energy, aerospace, advanced manufacturing, biotech and logistics. 
He says the credit raters once told him, "There's no way you can fix Ohio. It's dead." The governor's response? "I said, 'No, no, no, no, no! Think of us as a basketball player who's 7 feet tall but doesn't know how to dribble.' " As president, Mr. Kasich says he'd start conducting ball-handling drills. Invoking his 1990s and Ohio experiences, he explains that "if it's worked twice, it ought to work thrice, and I think the plan is very reasonable." 
Mr. Kasich is proposing what he calls a "shock and awe" economic package: tax reform to lower the top individual income rate to 28%, the corporate rate to 25% and capital gains to 15%; reform of entitlements and the bureaucracy to cut the growth of spending and balance the budget in eight years; deregulation; and control of the border. "The No. 1 thing," he says, "is economic growth." 
In an era of polarization, Mr. Kasich says he'd revive a prelapsarian state of comity. "My program wouldn't be just partisan. I know I could get some Democrats to vote for this kind of stuff," he says. "I don't think we've had a president in a very, very long time, since Clinton, that actually knew how to deal with a legislature." The governor then tells a story about dealing with Democrats in Ohio, detours into human trafficking, highway funds and the gas tax. Then, back on subject: "This president doesn't know how to do it and I'm not sure Bush did it. He really had a great personality, but I am not convinced he really knew how. There's a certain technique: it's calling their mom; it's calling their kids; it's bringing them into your office; it's letting them ride in the car." 
"I'll tell you one thing," he adds. "There ain't anybody else running that knows how to do this." 
Perhaps Mr. Kasich's candidacy is under-kindled because he is identified with the "Republican Establishment," or what's left of it, in an outsider's year. "When anybody ever says, 'Well, you seem more moderate,' " the governor observes, "I go, 'Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa! Wait a minute here, let's talk about -- do you think cutting taxes is conservative? Do you think balancing budgets is conservative? Do you think school choice is conservative? Do you think welfare reform is conservative? You just kind of don't like my tone, don't you?' " 
Mr. Kasich's tone won't satisfy modern hyperpartisans who favor politics red in tooth and claw. But what's notable is how sui generis -- and occasionally, how liberal -- his conservatism is. Mr. Kasich isn't the kind of Republican who wants to retreat on social issues like abortion, climate change or child tax credits. Instead, he has philosophically inconsistent positions, all equally strongly held. 
Speaking of tone, Mr. Kasich can be self-righteous. He dismisses arguments he finds uncongenial with phrases like "Are you kidding me?" and "Come on," and he's quick to impugn the motives of critics. He also tends to weaponize his Christian convictions, as if those critics are blaspheming. 
These two weaknesses, if that's what they are -- his policy schisms and instinct for moral censure -- combined in his 2013 decision to have Ohio join the new Medicaid expansion of the Affordable Care Act. Other Republican governors did too, but Mr. Kasich bypassed opposition in the state legislature by using an arcane outside board, and he then toured the country insulting anyone who dissented. 
The sentimental narrative that the apostle John Kasich rolls out is that when you get to the pearly gates, St. Peter isn't going to ask what you did to keep the government small. But he will ask what you did for the poor. The governor instructs his critics to consult Matthew 25, where Jesus tells his followers to help "the least of these brothers." As recently as January, in an address before Montana legislators who opposed Medicaid expansion, he insinuated that they were responsible for killing "a guy who froze to death." 
Mr. Kasich opened Medicaid to able-bodied working-age adults with no dependent children. We wondered, given that resources are scarce, why not instead use taxpayer dollars to help the more than 40,000 Ohioans with developmental disabilities on Medicaid waiting lists -- 22,000 with immediate needs? The average wait time for these extra "waiver" services is about six years. 
"As a result of having expanded it, I now have the resources to treat mental health and drug addiction," Mr. Kasich replies, before noting that "we now have a program where if you're developmentally disabled, we can try to get you as mainstreamed as possible. So I'm not so sure that your numbers are right but I'd be glad to check." 
When we follow up, Mr. Kasich says his expansion is "providing resources dramatically for everybody, for the mentally ill, for the drug addicted, for the working poor and probably for the developmentally disabled. And like I say, our biggest increase in our budget this year was for the developmentally disabled." 
Afterward a spokesman sends an email suggesting that the Ohio waiting lists aren't "the best measure," because parents pre-emptively add their children to get a jump on wait times. "Part of the reason the list is what it is," he adds, "is because the previous governors did such a poor job." 
To his credit, Mr. Kasich has worked to make Medicaid less dysfunctional. The point is that rather than make holier-than-thou lectures, Mr. Kasich might find more traction among Republicans if he assumed that most Americans are arguing in good faith, even those who disagree with him -- or Him. 
Mr. Kasich's chance is due north. "If I get destroyed in New Hampshire, then that's the end of the game. But I don't think that's going to happen, 'cause I have too good of ground game up there. That's how you win elections, with the ground game. I've got the best ground game in the state," he says. "So the question is do they identify our voters and deliver them. That's how you win elections." 
Mr. Rago is a member of the Journal's editorial board. 
Credit: By Joseph Rago 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Presidential elections;  
Candidates  
People  Kasich, John R  
Company / organization  Name:  Republican Party  
NAICS:  813940  

Title  The Weekend Interview with John Kasich: John Kasich vs 'Obscurity'  
Author  Rago, Joseph  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.11  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Dec 12, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1748080733  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1748080733?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 175 of 376 


World News: King Coal Hard to Dethrone 
Moss, Trefor.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]10 Dec 2015: A.11. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=World+News%3A+King+Coal+Hard+to+Dethrone&title=Wall+Street+Jo 12-10&volume=&issue=&spage=A.11&au=Moss%2C+Trefor&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
In most of the developed world, competition from natural gas and environmental regulations have crippled the coal industry, bankrupting companies and snuffing out jobs in the 
U.S. and Europe. 

Full Text 
MANILA -- The Philippines is set to open 23 coal-fired power plants over the next five years to meet rising electricity demand, illustrating the challenge climate-talk negotiators 
face in crafting a deal that reduces carbon emissions. 
A new draft of the agreement released Wednesday -- after almost 10 days of talks among 195 nations -- showed that some fundamental points remain up in the air, including 
how much money developing countries should get to help switch away from fossil fuels. 

The U.S. announced it would double aid to help poor countries adapt to the effects of climate change, to at least $860 million by 2020, in a signal that rich governments will 
stick to their part of the deal. 
Governments also still haven't decided by how much temperatures should be allowed to increase, or whether emerging economies will take on more responsibilities. 
In most of the developed world, competition from natural gas and environmental regulations have crippled the coal industry, bankrupting companies and snuffing out jobs in the 

U.S. and Europe. But in the Philippines and in dozens of other developing countries, coal remains an essential fuel for building more prosperous societies. 
The commodity is cheap and abundant, supplying about 40% of the world's energy, according to the International Energy Agency. But coal is also responsible for a third of all 
carbon emissions, and its use is projected to rise -- especially in Asia. 
Environmentally minded leaders, especially from the West, want to curb coal use. But many developing countries, aware that it fueled the industrialization of the U.S. and 

Europe, argue that coal is key to their future too. 

Manila's building bonanza will make it Asia's most coal-dependent country by 2035 as a percentage of its energy mix, according to IHS Energy Insight, a research company. 
Government officials say the booming economy needs the coal plants to offset declining domestic reserves of natural gas. 
The government's position is at odds with the country's self-image as environmentally progressive. A third of the country's power is now generated by renewable sources, 

chiefly geothermal and hydroelectric. 

Filipinos became acutely conscious of climate change after scientists blamed global warming for the intensity of Typhoon Haiyan, which killed over 7,000 people and ravaged the 
country's central provinces two years ago. 
At the climate talks in Paris, the Philippines is leading a 20-nation group, the Climate Vulnerable Forum, comprising countries such as Bangladesh, Ethiopia and Vietnam that are 

most at risk from rising temperatures. 
Before arriving, President Benigno Aquino III pledged the Philippines would reduce its carbon emissions 70% by 2030. 
"We all have to do as much as we can," Mr. Aquino told Asia-Pacific leaders in Manila in November. "Countries have to contribute the maximum." 
The Philippine government said in its Paris pledge that the 70% cut would be conditional on financial assistance and the transfer of green technology from more-developed 

nations, but that ambitious reductions could be made in various sectors, including energy. 
Yet, according to IHS, the Philippines will nearly triple its fleet of coal plants by 2020, while doubling the amount of CO2 to 70 million metric tons a year by 2025. 
The Philippines is hardly the only country depending on coal. 
Vietnam plans to double its coal plants to 40 by 2022 to tide it over until a generation of nuclear generators comes on line. Indonesia is encouraging more coal-fired plants to 

support its mining industry. 

China added an extraordinary 39 gigawatts in new coal-fired capacity last year, according to official data, enough to power millions of homes. Even Japan is building dozens of 
new coal plants in the wake of the Fukushima disaster. 
But while the use of coal in countries like China and India has yet to peak, the commodity is projected to be a smaller proportion of their total fuel mix in the coming decades. 
Credit: By Trefor Moss 

(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 


Details 
Subject  Emissions control;  
Industrial plant emissions;  
Developing countries--LDCs;  
Climate change;  
Coal-fired power plants  
Location  United States--US; Philippines  
Classification  8340: Electric, water & gas utilities  
9179: Asia & the Pacific  
Title  World News: King Coal Hard to Dethrone  
Author  Moss, Trefor  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.11  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Dec 10, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1747224510  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1747224510?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 176 of 376 


World News -- China's World: For China, 'Mandate of Heaven' at Stake in Paris Talks 
Browne, Andrew.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]09 Dec 2015: A.11. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=World+News+-­+China%27s+World%3A+For+China%2C+%27Mandate+of+Heaven%27+at+Stake+in+Paris+Talks&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2015-12­09&volume=&issue=&spage=A.11&au=Browne%2C+Andrew&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
[...]climate change is about water -- the destructive effects that come from too much of it or too little. 

Full Text 
SHANGHAI -- Chinese legend credits the god-king Da Yu -- the "Mighty Yu" -- with taming the Yellow River more than 4,000 years ago. 
The drainage channels he dug to prevent flooding, it's said, gave birth to a civilization. It also established forever a link between political power and the environment; emperors who failed to manage it properly lost the "Mandate of Heaven" to rule. This historical legacy shadowed China's modern leader, Xi Jinping, to the climate-change conference now under way in Paris, and it helps account for the country's remarkable 
transformation from truculent spoiler at a similar gathering in Copenhagen six years ago to cheerleader for action this time around. 
Back then, China refused to offer hard commitments on emissions reductions. 
Now China and the U.S., the world's top two carbon emitters, are partners in the battle to help save the global environment. China has offered absolute commitments, 

promising to reach peak carbon emissions by 2030 at the latest. 
Between Copenhagen and Paris, the rulers of China reached a political epiphany. 
It became clear to them that environmental degradation had grown severe enough to challenge the party's own governing mandate. 
Chinese citizens were in open rebellion; pollution was accounting for half of all public protests. Research showed life expectancy in northern China, often shrouded in thick smog, 

was 5.5 years less than in the south. 

Responding to public outrage, Premier Li Keqiang has declared war on air pollution, but it's a stubborn enemy. On Monday Beijing issued its first-ever red alert, and the next day 
schools closed and cars were idled as another "airpocalypse" engulfed the capital. 
A big question, though, is whether Beijing will prioritize the fight against air pollution, which isn't quite the same battle as curbing emissions of carbon dioxide. 
Air pollution generates regime-threatening public anger and some of China's steps to mitigate it, such as investing in technology to improve energy efficiency, do curb carbon 

emissions as well to the extent that they cut the use of coal. 

Other measures target key air pollutants like sulfur and nitrogen, but not carbon dioxide, which is blamed for contributing to climate change but whose damaging effects are not 
as immediately obvious. 
Deeper cuts will require a wholesale shift from cheap coal, which accounts for about two-thirds of China's energy mix, in favor of more expensive clean energy. This is politically 

difficult since it will almost certainly crimp short-term growth. 

Much will depend on the success of a national carbon cap-and-trade system that Mr. Xi has promised. But letting companies buy and sell permits to emit set levels of carbon 
only works if incentives for switching to green technology, or otherwise change behavior, are high enough. Similar markets elsewhere have failed that test. 
Still, China's intentions are clear: It is committed to increasing the share of nonfossil fuels in its primary energy mix to 20%, also by 2030, equivalent to almost the entire 

electrical-generation capacity of the U.S. 

Moreover, it's likely that China will meet its peak carbon target earlier than 2030 as its growth slows and it wrenches its economy away from reliance on energy-intensive 
investment. 
In the end, climate change is about water -- the destructive effects that come from too much of it or too little. 
Floods and droughts will increasingly test the regime, as they have done for thousands of years. 
The aquifers beneath the north China plain are already running dry, while the Yellow River itself slows to a muddy trickle before it reaches the ocean. Before long, rising sea 

levels will seriously threaten Shanghai, China's largest city, along with vast swaths of coastal China. 

It will take all the skills and determination of a "Mighty Yu" to beat this challenge. It's not just Communist Party rule that may depend on it, but the future of Chinese civilization 
-- and the world beyond. 
Credit: By Andrew Browne 

(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Air pollution;  
Clean technology;  
Emissions trading;  
Aquifers;  
Emissions control;  
Climate change  
Location  Yellow River; China  
People  Xi Jinping; Li Keqiang  
Classification  1540: Pollution control  
9179: Asia & the Pacific  
Title  World News -- China's World: For China, 'Mandate of Heaven' at Stake in Paris Talks  
Author  Browne, Andrew  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.11  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Dec 9, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1746798089  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1746798089?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 177 of 376 


Bernie's Climate Honesty 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]09 Dec 2015: A.14. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Bernie%27s+Climate+Honesty&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=009 12-09&volume=&issue=&spage=A.14&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
To reach this developing world level of CO2 emissions, Mr. Sanders would: impose an unspecified carbon tax; ban all offshore drilling and fossil-fuel leases on federal lands; stop "dirty pipeline" projects; ban natural gas and oil exports; force states to ban fracking; ban mountaintop coal mining; impose a new fuel-efficiency standard of 65 miles per gallon by 2025; spend "massive" federal dollars on subsidies for wind, solar, geothermal, biofuels, home-efficiency programs and energy storage; federally underwrite electric-car charging stations, high-speed passenger and cargo rail, a smart grid, and clean-energy job training; shut down the nuclear industry; and provide "clean energy funding" to the rest of the world. 

Full Text 
Bernie Sanders has no chance to win the Democratic presidential nomination, but the breathtaking details of the climate-change plan he released this week are still worth noting. They show where the Democratic Party is headed. 
The Vermont Senator calls climate change "the single greatest threat facing our planet," and he seems to mean it. He is proposing a 40% reduction in carbon emissions by 2030, and an 80% reduction by 2050, which is significantly more than the up-to 28% cut by 2025 that President Obama has pledged at the Paris climate confab. 
To reach this developing world level of CO2 emissions, Mr. Sanders would: impose an unspecified carbon tax; ban all offshore drilling and fossil-fuel leases on federal lands; stop "dirty pipeline" projects; ban natural gas and oil exports; force states to ban fracking; ban mountaintop coal mining; impose a new fuel-efficiency standard of 65 miles per gallon by 2025; spend "massive" federal dollars on subsidies for wind, solar, geothermal, biofuels, home-efficiency programs and energy storage; federally underwrite electric-car charging stations, high-speed passenger and cargo rail, a smart grid, and clean-energy job training; shut down the nuclear industry; and provide "clean energy funding" to the rest of the world. 
Mr. Sanders doesn't include the cost of all this, for obvious political reasons, yet give him points for honesty. Hillary Clinton wants voters to believe that Planet Earth can be cooled with this rule change or that subsidy tweak. The Sanders plan admits that decarbonization under current technology will require a government-mandated top-to-bottom remake of the U.S. economy, and maybe the American way of life. Welcome to the revolution. 
(See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: It Will Be Pure, but How Will Vermont Foot the Bill?" -- WSJ Dec. 22, 2015) 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Presidential elections; 
Emissions control; 
Climate change; 
Energy efficiency; 
Environmental policy; 
Editorials -- Climate change 


People 	Sanders, Bernard 
Company / organization 	Name: Democratic Party 

NAICS: 813940 


Classification 	1540: Pollution control 

9190: United States 


Title 	Bernie's Climate Honesty 
Author 	Anonymous 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages  A.14  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Dec 9, 2015  
column  REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  1746797945  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1746797945?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 178 of 376 


Market and Ideology Hurt Older Coal Mines 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]08 Dec 2015: A.14. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Market+and+Ideology+Hurt+Older+Coal+Mines&title=Wall+Street+Jou 12-08&volume=&issue=&spage=A.14&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
According to trade publications, regional railroad CSX Corp.'s coal revenues are down $1 billion in the last four years alone.\n 

Full Text 
Paul Tice's "Obama's Appalachian Tragedy" (Dec. 1) wrongly puts most of the blame for West Virginia's struggling coal industry and economy on recent clean-air regulations. In 
reality, the increasing cost of mining harder-to-access coal seams is the primary reason for the decline. 
Coal-mining productivity has dropped by over 50% in the state over the last 15 years and has lost electricity market share to cheaper Western coal and shale gas. Less than 
58% of the coal burned in the state's power plants came from West Virginia coal mines in 2013, down from 72% in 2001. Today, there are about 15,300 coal miners in West 
Virginia -- about 1,000 more than in 2000. 

Losing coal jobs is nothing new in West Virginia. During the 1980s the state saw the number of coal jobs fall by half, and we are long way from the 120,000 we had during the 

1940s. This longer-term decline is largely due to mechanization. 
West Virginia's coal-mining communities deserve a brighter future. Congress should act swiftly to support the proposed investments in coal-fields communities that will help 
diversify the economy and help retool workers for emerging opportunities, while shoring up funding for the health and retirement benefits workers have earned. 

Ted Boettner Executive Director W.Va. Center on Budget and Policy Charleston, W.Va. 
While this impact on coal-mining jobs in West Virginia is unfortunate and needs to be addressed, the alternative to such a reduction is far worse. Based on the information published by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, if the world continues on the current trajectory of carbon emissions, we would likely see an increase in average temperature of 4-5 degrees Celsius by the end of the century. If we allow this to occur, the results would be catastrophic for our children and grandchildren. 
Instead of tilting at windmills, Mr. Tice would do better to advocate for a program of retraining for workers who have been displaced by the reduction in coal production. Look at what California has accomplished in "clean tech" industries. In a recent news release, U.K. Energy and Climate Change Secretary Amber Rudd said: "It cannot be satisfactory for an advanced economy like the U.K. to be relying on polluting, carbon-intensive 50-year-old-coal-fired power stations." She went on to state that they would be closing all coal-fired power stations by 2025. 
Barry Engelman 
Los Angeles 
Many environmentalists seem to be more concerned about the protection of animals and fish than the welfare of their fellow human beings -- loggers, miners, farmers, pipeline constructors and coal miners in Appalachia. Pick them off one at a time and don't worry about their losses. 
It is particularly odd to see the Democratic Party's president and congressional leaders eating their own voters on these issues, but farmers' need for workers to harvest their crops seems to be equally ignored by Republicans. 
I lived in Omaha at a time when clothes couldn't be hung outside to dry during the winter for fear of coal dust in the air, and I have canoed or rafted a great many of America's rivers. We all appreciate healthy air and beautiful rivers, but those who advance cost analysis for environmental issues make more sense than those who rush willy-nilly to kill jobs. 
Evelyn W. Kruger 
Cocoa Beach, Fla. 
Anticoal government regulations have created an avalanche of job destruction, engulfing related supply-chain industries. 
According to trade publications, regional railroad CSX Corp.'s coal revenues are down $1 billion in the last four years alone. With no need for coal trains, CSX laid off 300 employees at the once busy railroad yard in Erwin, Tenn. Another 180 jobs were cut when locomotive and car shops for CSX coal-train maintenance were closed in Corbin, Ky. 
Hundreds of small businesses relied on these mining and transportation paychecks. They go next. 
Steve Hites 
Skagway, Alaska 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Coal industry; 

Coal mining; 

Coal-fired power plants; 
Retirement benefits 


Location 	California; West Virginia 
Company / organization 	Name: Congress 

NAICS: 921120; 

Name: Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change NAICS: 928120, 541712 
Title 	Market and Ideology Hurt Older Coal Mines 
Author 	Anonymous 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.14 
Publication year 	2015 
Publication date 	Dec 8, 2015 
Section 	Letters to the Editor 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 	00999660 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	News 
ProQuest document ID 	1744906126 
Document URL 	https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1744906126?accountid=14902 
Copyright 	(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further 
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Last updated 2017-11-23 
Database US Newsstream 
document 179 of 376 


World News: China Gains Edge in Climate Talks --- Slower growth helps Beijing make bolder pledges at summit to curtail emissions 
Spegele, Brian.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]08 Dec 2015: A.10. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=World+News%3A+China+Gains+Edge+in+Climate+Talks+--­+Slower+growth+helps+Beijing+make+bolder+pledges+at+summit+to+curtail+emissions&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2015-12­08&volume=&issue=&spage=A.10&au=Spegele%2C+Brian&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
China's approach is "definitely not business as usual," said Jonathan Pershing, a former U.S. lead climate negotiator, now principal deputy director at the Department of Energy's Office of Energy Policy and Systems Analysis. 

Full Text 
PINGDINGSHAN, China -- Chinese negotiators traveled to climate talks in Paris this month with a rare tailwind: the country's slowing growth. 
China is the world's biggest emitter of greenhouse gases, and images of Chinese cities blanketed by smog remain common. On Monday, Beijing issued its first-ever "red alert" 
for hazardous air, effective Tuesday, ordering half the capital's cars off the streets and a halt to construction, and urging residents to stay indoors. 
Still, there are signs that as China's economy starts relying less on heavy industry and more on consumer spending, it will also pollute less. And across China, including here in 

sooty Pingdingshan, entrepreneurs are racing to profit from China's push for a cleaner economy. 

Alongside the drop in China's growth rate -- the economy expanded 6.9% in the third quarter, its slowest rate since 2009 -- China's power demand has flattened after years of 
double-digit expansion, and its coal use and imports have plummeted. 
The slowing growth has given China greater room for big pledges on cleaning up its environment and curtailing emissions in the coming years, even as emissions continue to 

rise today. 
China has promised to peak its carbon emissions by 2030, if not earlier, a sign Beijing believes it can separate growth of its economy from rising emissions levels. 
"China's pledges are very forceful if compared with those of some developed countries," Premier Li Keqiang recently said of China's climate commitments to the United Nations. 
The pledges by Beijing have contributed to some optimism as the Paris talks continue. China's approach is "definitely not business as usual," said Jonathan Pershing, a former 

U.S. lead climate negotiator, now principal deputy director at the Department of Energy's Office of Energy Policy and Systems Analysis. 
But the question for China's leaders -- and policy makers globally -- is whether the transition to slower-but-cleaner growth will be sustainable. While Beijing may envisage creating tens of thousands of high-value jobs in sectors such as wind power and electric cars, providing enough work to satisfy its huge labor force is difficult. If growth were to falter more, leaders could choose to pump up investment in old industries that support jobs, such as steel. 
China's goal of raising its share of nonfossil fuels in the energy mix to around 20% by 2030 -- up from around 10% in recent years -- remains daunting. The country will need to deploy as much as 1,000 gigawatts in new clean energy capacity, according to U.S. government estimates -- roughly equal to the U.S.'s entire capacity. 
China's ability to meet those goals and sharply slash emissions over the longer term will help determine whether the world's nations can limit rising global temperatures. China accounts for over one-fifth of carbon emissions world-wide. 
Proponents of aggressive climate action by China say cleaning up its economy and creating jobs can go hand-in-hand. Yulong Zhu, an entrepreneur in the coal city of Pingdingshan, in central Henan province, is part of an emerging crop of businessmen who want to profit from China's pledge to curtail emissions. 
Henan officials say they have been heeding Beijing's calls to strengthen environmental protection. Among new orders, cities including Pingdingshan and Henan's capital, Zhengzhou, are requiring builders to use higher proportions of eco-friendly materials in their projects, particularly public works like roads and social housing. 
There, Mr. Zhu saw opportunity. His company, Nasdaq-listed Yulong Eco-Materials Ltd., whose revenue largely comes from making ready-mixed concrete for customers, now competes for government contracts to haul building-material waste, such as old cement from dilapidated buildings. Yulong then reprocesses the waste into paving bricks and other materials used for the base layer of roadways. 
"The government's stance toward environmental issues has really clearly intensified," said Mr. Zhu. 
Yulong says it expects big growth in its recycled brick business thanks to new government policies. It finished a new dormitory for employees this year, and is ramping up hiring. 
Growing anxiety over environmental degradation across Chinese society underpins confidence of those like Mr. Zhu, who believe the nation's leaders are committed to greener growth. 
Yang Jie contributed to this article. Credit: By Brian Spegele 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Emissions;  
International relations;  
Summit conferences;  
Global warming;  
Climate change  
Location  United States--US; China  
Company / organization  Name: United Nations--UN  
NAICS: 928120  
Title  World News: China Gains Edge in Climate Talks --- Slower growth helps Beijing make bolder  
pledges at summit to curtail emissions  
Author  Spegele, Brian  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.10  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Dec 8, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1744906118  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1744906118?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 180 of 376 


World News: U.S. and EU Seek Climate Assurances at Talks 
Mauldin, William; Steinhauser, Gabriele.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]07 Dec 2015: A.11. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=World+News%3A+U.S.+and+EU+Seek+Climate+Assurances+at+Talks& 12-07&volume=&issue=&spage=A.11&au=Mauldin%2C+William%3BSteinhauser%2C+Gabriele&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
U.S. Republicans and other critics of the Paris climate talks are seizing on concern about China's reliability, after Beijing earlier this year disclosed it had burned around 14% more coal in recent years than previously reported. [...]the scandal over Volkswagen AG's diesel emissions also is pushing officials and environmental groups to take a second look at what countries and companies are doing behind the scenes. 

Full Text 
PARIS -- Countries pushing to complete a global climate accord face a challenge as they try to wrap up talks this week: How to trust that nations will live up to their commitments. 
Largely because of resistance from the U.S., national pledges to cut greenhouse-gas emissions, which are at the heart of the Paris negotiations, likely won't have legal force. 
So American and European negotiators are insisting the accord have a clear system for measuring and reporting emissions. Accurate data on emissions, they say, will form the basis for updating emissions-reduction pledges to make sure global warming can be kept within acceptable limits. 
Emerging economies such as China and India are pushing back, saying external checkups on their emissions are unwanted interference. Smaller developing nations say they lack the means and expertise to work by the same standards as richer governments. 
The push for a new, more-unified system to measure and verify national emissions is part of a larger effort to narrow the decades-old division between developed and developing countries under international climate agreements. 
It is one of a host of issues, including financial support for poor countries, that technical negotiators failed to resolve last week and which are bound to keep ministers, who arrived in Paris on Saturday, busy as they try to seal a deal to tackle global warming. Talks are scheduled to wrap up on Friday, but many officials expect them to run into the weekend. 
U.S. Republicans and other critics of the Paris climate talks are seizing on concern about China's reliability, after Beijing earlier this year disclosed it had burned around 14% more coal in recent years than previously reported. 
Moreover, the scandal over Volkswagen AG's diesel emissions also is pushing officials and environmental groups to take a second look at what countries and companies are doing behind the scenes. 
The U.S., which wants to avoid binding emissions targets, backs mandatory standards of transparency, a point President Barack Obama underscoredon Tuesdayin Paris. 
The most recent draft for the Paris deal, released on Saturday, highlights controversies surrounding emissions measuring and reporting. 
The article dealing with transparency stretches over two of the draft document's 43 pages and contains multiple options laying out different reporting requirements, including some that would shield China and India from having to play by the same rules as traditional developed countries. 
In the EU, high standards of accountability and transparency are important for member states, including Germany, that are undertaking expensive transitions away from fossil fuel. Officials say by forcing countries at least to regularly report on what they spew into the air, other governments and civil society can apply peer pressure to hold laggards accountable. 
Accurate data, these officials say, would clarify whether governments should step up emission reductions to make sure average temperatures don't rise more than 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) above preindustrial levels. 
Credit: By William Mauldin and Gabriele Steinhauser 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Emissions; 

Global warming; 
Reporting requirements; 
Climate change; 
Summit conferences 


Location  China; United States--US; India  
People  Obama, Barack  
Company / organization  Name: European Union  
NAICS: 926110, 928120  
Title  World News: U.S. and EU Seek Climate Assurances at Talks  
Author  Mauldin, William; Steinhauser, Gabriele  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.11  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Dec 7, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1744607511  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1744607511?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 181 of 376 


Cross Country: How Wind Farms Blow Away Rights on Real Farms 
Hurst, Blake.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]05 Dec 2015: A.11. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Cross+Country%3A+How+Wind+Farms+Blow+Away+Rights+on+Re 12-05&volume=&issue=&spage=A.11&au=Hurst%2C+Blake&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Solar panels blanket thousands of acres, wind turbines dot hilltops, and hundreds of miles of transmission lines carry electricity from those sites to the places where it's needed. After the Public Service Commission reached its decision, the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Missouri's leading newspaper, editorially chastised farmers for their reluctance to sacrifice for the sake of the planet: "If rural landowners in Missouri don't give a little and embrace ways to save the Earth from global warming, more than farming as they know it could be at stake." 

Full Text 
Tarkio, Mo. -- A favorite pastime of certain journalists on slow news days is to ponder what global warming will mean for agriculture. It's easy enough to drive out to the country and find somebody in overalls willing to blame the latest flood, drought, windstorm or six-legged pest outbreak on the increased carbon in the atmosphere. The tone that most of the resulting stories take regarding the food supply is enough to drive the average reader into the basement with a few cases of freeze-dried energy bars. 
Reporters should spend more time questioning what the climate-change agenda means for farmers in the here and now. The drive to replace fossil fuels has already changed the countryside. Solar panels blanket thousands of acres, wind turbines dot hilltops, and hundreds of miles of transmission lines carry electricity from those sites to the places where it's needed. 
At first, most rural residents were excited. Landowners were paid for allowing wind turbines to be set up on their property. The construction was an economic boon for their communities. School districts and local governments appreciated the increased property-tax revenue. Although some opposition to windmills has formed, willing partners still can be found for most projects. 
It's not clear, however, that this will always be true, particularly when it comes to the transmission lines that service these installations. In March 2014 a private company attempting to cross Missouri with a high voltage line applied to the state for utility status, which would have effectively granted it the power of eminent domain. Farmers and rural residents rebelled, and the Missouri Public Service Commission denied the application this summer. 
When the local power company wanted to run a transmission line across my grandfather's farm in 1946, it paid him $10 a pole for his trouble. Those poles are still a pain today. They curtail our ability to irrigate, and they're awkward to maneuver farm implements around, since they weren't placed with modern machinery in mind. When my brother's 100-foot-wide sprayer came into inadvertent contact with the high-voltage line a few years ago, he had an experience that he will never forget. The electricity passed through the tractor, scrambling its digital brains, and traveled from the boom to the ground like a lightning bolt. 
But I'm sure that my grandfather never regretted agreeing to those poles. People needed electricity to heat homes and power radios and televisions and all the other conveniences of modern life. Hosting the power line helped our neighbors. It was part of being a good citizen. 
The case for permanently changing the countryside to theoretically shave a fraction of a degree off global temperatures sometime in the next century is considerably less convincing to Missouri landowners. After the Public Service Commission reached its decision, the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Missouri's leading newspaper, editorially chastised farmers for their reluctance to sacrifice for the sake of the planet: "If rural landowners in Missouri don't give a little and embrace ways to save the Earth from global warming, more than farming as they know it could be at stake." 
The U.S. is responsible for emitting some 13% of the world's carbon, down from 24% in 2000. Or at least that's the best estimate, since some countries are less than forthright on the matter. Reports last month suggested that China has understated its emissions by almost a billion tons a year. To put that figure in perspective: President Obama's Clean Power Plan calls for reducing carbon emissions from electricity generation by 32%, or 870 million tons annually. Even if the plan is successful, any global progress that the administration expected already has been swallowed by the revision in China's emissions figures. 
The effects of the Clean Power Plan at home, however, will be anything but inconsequential. Electricity prices will rise. The economy will be crippled in places where coal is mined. Increased construction of wind turbines and solar panels and transmission lines will turn pastoral areas into an extended substation. 
When the proposal for that power line in Missouri was announced, one of my friends, a farmer, discovered that a 140-foot transmission tower was to be located not in one of his open fields, but in the corner of his yard, about 250 feet from his front door. Although landowners here have won a temporary victory, and his yard is safe for now, rural residents can only expect further encroachment by clean-energy projects. 
Changes to the landscape are inevitable. But farmers shouldn't be conscripted to serve a climate-change agenda. States should think twice before granting the power of eminent domain to developers of renewable-energy projects, who should have to negotiate with individual landowners like everybody else. 
Mr. Hurst is a farmer and the president of the Missouri Farm Bureau. 
(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: Windmills Have Direct Benefits for Farmers" -- WSJ December 15, 2015) 
Credit: By Blake Hurst 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Eminent domain;  
Wind farms;  
Climate change  
Title  Cross Country: How Wind Farms Blow Away Rights on Real Farms  
Author  Hurst, Blake  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.11  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Dec 5, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1739283564  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1739283564?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 182 of 376 


A Nuclear Paradigm Shift? 
Jenkins, Holman W, Jr.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]02 Dec 2015: A.13. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=A+Nuclear+Paradigm+Shift%3F&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00 12-02&volume=&issue=&spage=A.13&au=Jenkins%2C+Holman+W%2C+Jr&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Wade Allison, emeritus professor of physics at Oxford, has a more realistic idea for fighting global warming than any being promoted at this week's climate summit in Paris: Increase by 1,000-fold the allowable limits for radiation exposure to the public and workers from nuclear power plants. 

Full Text 
Wade Allison, emeritus professor of physics at Oxford, has a more realistic idea for fighting global warming than any being promoted at this week's climate summit in Paris: Increase by 1,000-fold the allowable limits for radiation exposure to the public and workers from nuclear power plants. 
Politicians in Paris might notice their host country ranks 20th in per capita income but 50th in greenhouse emissions. You know why: France gets 75% of its electricity from nuclear. France has waded forward even while, for reasons having to do with horror of nuclear war and atmospheric testing, the world has surrendered since the 1950s to an unfounded dogma that radiation exposure is always dangerous in direct proportion to dose. 
This is roughly the equivalent of saying a bullet fired at one foot per second has 1/900th the chance of killing you as a bullet fired at 900 f.p.s. (the actual muzzle velocity of a .45 automatic). Known as the linear no-threshold model (LNT), it underlies predictions of thousands of cancer deaths from Chernobyl or Fukushima that have consistently failed to be borne out. 
Sweden a few years ago finally acknowledged nearly a year's supply of reindeer meat was needlessly destroyed after Chernobyl. A Japanese survey in 2013 found 1,600 premature deaths from "evacuation stress" (including suicides and loss of access to critical health care) among those forcibly protected from exposures that posed little or no threat and were less than residents of, say, Finland experience on a normal basis. 
In 2001, America's then-chief nuclear regulator cautiously admitted that "excess cases of leukemia that can be attributed to Chernobyl have not been detected." 
In the 1980s, 1,700 apartments in Taiwan were built from recycled steel contaminated with radioactive cobalt. In a 2006 study that found residents suffered unusually low cancer rates, the authors suggested that, by correcting our risk estimates, "many billions of dollars in nuclear reactor operation could be saved and expansion of nuclear electricity generation could be facilitated." 
They were right: Exaggerated radiation fears have been crucial in driving up the safety, waste storage and licensing costs of nuclear power. But change may finally be coming -­a paradigm shift in how we think about nuclear risk. 
In June, the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission began soliciting comments on whether to revise the safety standards in favor of a more sophisticated view, known as hormesis, which recognizes that organisms bathed in natural radiation have evolved cellular responses that protect against low-level radiation doses. The petitioners for this change include Dr. Carol S. Marcus, a professor of nuclear medicine at UCLA, who pointed to a lack of "scientifically valid support" for the LNT hypothesis and the "enormous" cost of "complying with LNT based regulations." 
Kudos go to Mr. Allison and toxicologist Edward J. Calabrese of UMass Amherst, who've fought this battle for decades. Prof. Calabrese's latest paper, published in October in the journal Environmental Research, traces how a cabal of radiation geneticists associated with the Manhattan Project in the 1950s promoted adoption of the LNT hypothesis to increase the prestige of their discipline. 
By now hundreds of papers have added evidence against LNT. A study last year from Munich's Institute of Radiation Biology showed a specific mechanism by which low levels of radiation induce a nonlinear response in certain cell protection mechanisms. 
The consequences have been incalculable. Not from any intrinsic cost, safety or efficiency advantage coal became the world's go-to electricity source in the early 21st century. China and India today would not be opting for coal. They would be choosing among an array of off-the-shelf, affordable, safe and clean nuclear reactors developed in the advanced industrial countries. 
How foolish have we been? In a month, coal mining kills more people than all nuclear power industry accidents since the beginning of time. Though it opens a can of worms, by the standards of LNT, coal is also more dangerous than nuclear. The particulates, heavy metals and radioactive elements coal plants emit are estimated to cause 13,200 deaths a year, according to the American Lung Association. 
Put also into the mix Al Gore. When climate change politics emerged in the 1980s under his leadership, it quickly became a psychodrama in which ideological solidarity required rejection of nuclear power -- though nuclear power is the obvious, easiest solution to the alleged carbon problem. 
At least the Obama administration is capable of cold reason when not under the microscope from its lefty friends. Undoubtedly a prayer goes up daily from the White House that the greenies won't notice its openness to revising the nuclear safety standards. Maybe the Keystone pipeline distraction was good for something after all. 
Unfortunately, it probably would take only one noisy New York Times op-ed accusing him of green apostasy to cause the president to surrender one of his few useful gestures on the climate conundrum. 
Credit: By Holman W. Jenkins, Jr. 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Nuclear power plants;  
Safety standards;  
Radiation;  
Global warming;  
Environmental policy;  
Nuclear energy;  
Emissions control  
Location  France  
Classification  1540: Pollution control  
9180: International  
5340: Safety management  
Title  A Nuclear Paradigm Shift?  
Author  Jenkins, Holman W, Jr  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.13  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Dec 2, 2015  
column  Business World  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1738323505  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1738323505?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 183 of 376 


We'll Always Have the Illusions of Paris 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]02 Dec 2015: A.14. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=We%27ll+Always+Have+the+Illusions+of+Paris&title=Wall+Street+J 12-02&volume=&issue=&spage=A.14&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
According to the Environmental Protection Agency's greenhouse gas inventory, that would be some 1.8 billion fewer tons of CO2-equivalent in a decade. The President is trading away the competitive advantage of cheap U.S. natural gas for a bag of anticarbon promises. [...]nothing that emerges from Paris will have a discernible effect on world temperatures. 

Full Text 
The running melodrama of the world climate-change talks reassembled in Paris this week, and word from the worthies is that this time the 196 nations are poised for a momentous breakthrough. Well, not quite. The politicians want a deal so badly that they'll accept anything that can pass as one, but it won't amount to much. 
Not that you'd know this from the grandiose rhetoric. President Obama called it an historical "turning point," the "moment we finally determined we would save our planet." French President Francois Hollande declared: "Never have the stakes of an international meeting been so high, since what is at stake is the future of the planet, the future of life." And Pope Francis chimed in that "if I may use a strong word I would say that we are at the edge of suicide." The theme is Apocalypse Right Now. 
The last climate talks collapsed in 2009 amid differences between rich and developing nations. The International Energy Agency estimates developing countries will emit 70% of world CO2 by 2030 and contribute 170% of emissions increases between now and then. Without their participation in a deal, atmospheric CO2 will continue to accumulate whatever the U.S. does. 
The problem is that countries like China (the No. 1 emitter) and India (No. 3) won't undermine their economic growth or stop eradicating desperate poverty to assuage Western neuralgia. World-wide, some 1.3 billion people still live without electricity. So the negotiators simply gave up the pretense of trying to agree to a legally binding agreement. 
Instead, countries will volunteer their own random carbon emissions-reduction targets and the actions they may or may not take to meet them, with no global goals. There are no consequences for failing to comply or even common standards for measuring improvement. In echt-United Nations idiom, these pledges are called Intended Nationally Determined Contributions, or INDCs. 
The Chinese INDC says carbon emissions will peak sometime before 2030, maybe, unless they don't. And even this vague aspiration was determined before the Communist Party revealed that China burned 17% more coal per year than it formerly disclosed. 
But no INDC exposes the Paris farce better than America's. Mr. Obama promises that the U.S. will reduce CO2 emissions by 26% to 28% from 2005 levels by 2025. According to the Environmental Protection Agency's greenhouse gas inventory, that would be some 1.8 billion fewer tons of CO2-equivalent in a decade. Yet the U.S. INDC outlines only about a billion tons, 45% short of the goal. 
Keep in mind that the reductions the Administration has identified touch everything from coal-fired power plants to landfill management to efficiency standards for home appliances. Mr. Obama doesn't lack ambition so much as legal authority; most of these unilateral rules are being challenged in the courts. Yet his green diplomats still can't explain how the U.S. will meet the targets they are selling in Paris. 
Not that Mr. Obama's plan won't damage U.S. jobs and living standards. Energy-intensive industries like manufacturing, chemicals, cement and pulp and paper will be particular victims and may decamp for overseas. The President is trading away the competitive advantage of cheap U.S. natural gas for a bag of anticarbon promises. 
Moreover, nothing that emerges from Paris will have a discernible effect on world temperatures. Researchers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology studied the INDCs that have been released so far and concluded that temperatures in 2100 will rise 3.7 degrees Celsius if they are followed to the letter. Then again, these are the same scientific models that predicted much higher temperatures than we've had. 
The other big item on the Paris agenda is the one that these confabs always come down to -- cash. Most developing-world INDCs are conditioned on an enormous wealth transfer. To try to resuscitate talks in 2009, Hillary Clinton as Secretary of State pledged a $100 billion public-private fund that would flow to poorer nations for climate mitigation. But the poor countries have wised up and are now demanding much more for "climate justice." 
Poorer nations claim they are owed a debt for carbon that Western industrialization released decades ago and will be disproportionately harmed by climate disasters. "The cost of action is not $100 billion. It is trillions -- $100 billion is just a reparation," said Prakash Javadekar, the Indian environment minister who is the Ta-Nehisi Coates of the climate-grievance movement. 
Mr. Obama isn't negotiating a treaty, because that would require two-thirds Senate ratification that he will never obtain. Thus he can make any "political agreement" finance promise he likes. But no one outside the West Wing believes Congress will earmark a dollar for windmills in Guangzhou and dikes in the Maldives. 
Which is just as well based on what we know about climate change. The world has warmed modestly in the last 35 years, nearly all of that before the last 15. It may or may not warm more in the future, and the effects could be helpful in some places, harmful in others. 
The best insurance is not to force-feed windmills on India, or hand more power to government mandarins who will parcel out how much carbon each country can emit. The remedy is faster economic growth so richer societies are better able to adapt to whatever happens. If Bill Gates wants to spend his billions looking for non-carbon energy solutions, great. It's his money, and innovation is essential to energy progress. The talks in Paris are beside the point. 
(See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: 'Warming' Science Is Anything but Settled" -- WSJ Dec. 7, 2015) 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Emissions control;  
International agreements;  
Industrial plant emissions;  
Global warming;  
Climate change;  
Economic growth;  
Editorials -- Global warming  
Location  Paris France  
Classification  1540: Pollution control  
9180: International  
Title  We'll Always Have the Illusions of Paris  
Author  Anonymous  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.14  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Dec 2, 2015  
column  REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  1738323365  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1738323365?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  


document 184 of 376 


Carbon-Tax Debate Fosters Unusual Allies 
Kent, Sarah; Scheck, Justin.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]01 Dec 2015: B.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Carbon­Tax+Debate+Fosters+Unusual+Allies&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2015-12­01&volume=&issue=&spage=B.1&au=Kent%2C+Sarah%3BScheck%2C+Justin&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Energy giants including Royal Dutch Shell PLC and BP PLC hope a so-called carbon tax -- which would force companies to pay for their emissions and likely increase oil producers' costs -- also would increase demand for natural gas, an increasingly significant part of their output. 

Full text 
Several big oil companies have fallen into unlikely alignment with environmental groups calling for new taxes on air polluters like coal-burning power plants. One key reason: Those taxes are probably good for their natural-gas businesses. 
Energy giants including Royal Dutch Shell PLC and BP PLC hope a so-called carbon tax -- which would force companies to pay for their emissions and likely increase oil producers' costs -- also would increase demand for natural gas, an increasingly significant part of their output. 
The companies are part of a collection of business interests, environmental activists and economists that have urged negotiators meeting at a U.N. climate-change summit in Paris over the next two weeks to consider potential carbon-pricing policies as a tool to curb emissions. Such programs could open new markets in China and elsewhere for gas to displace coal. 
Most carbon-tax plans being discussed wouldn't much affect transportation fuels that oil companies already sell, says the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. Automobile fuel is already heavily taxed in much of the world, while coal-heavy power production often isn't. 
"Coal," BP's chief economist, Spencer Dale, said in an October speech, "is likely to be more affected by future climate policies than either oil or gas." 
The embrace of carbon taxes demonstrates how some oil companies now see a business opportunity as efforts to enact climate-change policies gain momentum. While not entirely new, oil companies have become more vocal in their support for carbon taxes in recent years. 
Oil companies including BP, Shell and France's Total SA joined forces in recent months to push for action on climate change, calling for taxes to encourage the use of cleaner-burning gas over coal. BP has said switching just 1% of world-wide power production to gas from coal would have an equivalent emissions reduction as increasing renewable-energy generation by 11%. Exxon Mobil Corp. isn't part of the coalition, but in recent years it has expressed support for a carbon tax, provided it is offset by tax reductions elsewhere. 
Their support for a carbon tax carries relatively little risk, says Kurt Van Dender, the head of the tax and environment unit for the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, a group of first-world countries that includes the U.S. and Western European nations. 
Around 80% of carbon emissions in the U.S. and Europe come from power plants and big industrial sources that largely use coal, he said. 
"The relative increase [in costs] will be much higher for these nonoil types of energy," he said. 
Coal producers say any financial incentives to reduce CO2 emissions should be directed toward the development of carbon capture-and-storage, or CCS, technologies that force emissions into underground reservoirs. 
"Market mechanisms, including carbon pricing, should not impose punitive costs but should instead provide revenues that can be directed toward the deployment of low-emission technology, including CCS," said a spokeswoman for the World Coal Association, an advocacy group for coal producers. 
Positioning "coal as the villain and gas as the solution" isn't a productive long-term approach to curbing climate change, said Daniel Litvin, managing director of Critical Resource, a London-based resource-extraction consultancy. Shifting to natural gas from coal is "pretty far off the major transformation that's needed," he said. On Wednesday, his group said oil companies should focus more on alternative energy and energy efficiency. 
A global carbon tax is unlikely to emerge from the U.N. climate summit, but any international commitment to reducing emissions likely will result in individual countries implementing their own version of pricing carbon. 
The pro-carbon-tax talk hasn't taken oil companies out of the sights of environmental groups and policy makers who want to reduce fossil-fuel use. Shell this year faced protests in the U.S. for its exploration of the Arctic offshore Alaska, which environmental groups said could lead to pollution. Shell said it had taken all necessary precautions but pulled out of the project in September when drilling results were disappointing. 
In November, the New York attorney general's office confirmed it sent Exxon a subpoena for information on the company's research on and response to climate change going back decades. The request followed stories by InsideClimate News that detailed Exxon's 1970s research into climate change and later support for groups that questioned climate science. Exxon has said it didn't do anything wrong. 
Many environmentalists say the companies' support for a carbon price won't be sufficient to prevent global temperatures rising by dangerous amounts in the coming decades. 
Greenpeace campaigner Charlie Kronick said he supports raising the cost of fossil fuels, but he says a carbon tax alone isn't enough to curb global warming, and could benefit the companies that sell fossil fuels. It "absolutely will not do what we need to do, which is dramatically reduce fossil fuels," he said. 
Some oil companies, particularly in the U.S., remain suspicious of regulation and taxes overall. In a speech in October in London, Exxon Chief Executive Rex Tillerson pointedly noted that the U.S. had curbed emissions with an increase in natural-gas usage for electricity "in the absence of a comprehensive cost-of-carbon policy." 
Oil companies also oppose policies that would force a fast switch to more reliance on renewable energy, saying the world's energy needs are so great that fossil fuels will remain a part of the picture for decades. 
The carbon-tax push isn't oil companies' first foray into promoting more environmentally friendly energy alternatives. In the 1990s, for instance, Shell and BP invested in solar energy and other renewable sources, but they have scaled back many of those investments, scrapping some altogether. A Shell spokesman said the company is continuing with a "multibillion-dollar" investment in biofuels. 
Shell has produced more gas than oil on an annual basis since 2009. BP expects natural gas to make up about 60% of its total production by the end of the decade and nearly 50% of Exxon's production last year was gas. 
Credit: By Sarah Kent and Justin Scheck 

(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Climate change; Emissions; Power plants; Taxes; Environmental policy; Natural gas; Environmental tax; Petroleum industry; Carbon; Industrial plant emissions  
Location  United States--US  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Royal Dutch Shell PLC 324110, 213112, 221210;  
Name: NAICS:  Total SA 447190, 324110, 211111  
Classification  9180: International 8510: Petroleum industry 4210: Institutional taxation  
Title  Carbon-Tax Debate Fosters Unusual Allies  
Author  Kent, Sarah; Scheck, Justin  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.1  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Dec 1, 2015  

Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1737910374  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1737910374?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 185 of 376 


Obama's Appalachian Tragedy 
Tice, Paul H.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]01 Dec 2015: A.19. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Obama%27s+Appalachian+Tragedy&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn= 12-01&volume=&issue=&spage=A.19&au=Tice%2C+Paul+H&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
[...]those backing the climate-change agenda are doing their best to keep this reality hidden from the public. Since 2012, 27 coal-mining companies with core operations in Central Appalachia, a region roughly centered in southern West Virginia, have filed for bankruptcy protection. Production of coal in southern West Virginia declined by 45% between the first half of 2011 and the first half of 2015, according to data from the Energy Information Administration. Since 2009, 332 coal mines in West Virginia have been closed, and 9,733 jobs -- roughly 35% of the industry's total employment in the state -- have been lost, figures from the West Virginia Coal Association show. 

Full Text 
'The traveler comes to the Appalachians in the lovely season. He sees the hills, the streams, the foliage -- but not the poor." That passage comes from "The Other America," Michael Harrington's 1962 book that opened the eyes of liberal policy makers to America's invisible poverty. The classic work helped provide the intellectual ammunition for President Lyndon Johnson's "unconditional war on poverty," announced in his State of the Union address two years later. 
Fast forward to today. The latest touchstone of liberal policy, the regulation of greenhouse-gas emissions, is causing economic destruction and pushing poverty higher in the Appalachians. But those backing the climate-change agenda are doing their best to keep this reality hidden from the public. 
Since 2012, 27 coal-mining companies with core operations in Central Appalachia, a region roughly centered in southern West Virginia, have filed for bankruptcy protection. The list includes a number of large-cap, publicly traded entities, such as Alpha Natural Resources, James River Coal and Patriot Coal. Production of coal in southern West Virginia declined by 45% between the first half of 2011 and the first half of 2015, according to data from the Energy Information Administration. Since 2009, 332 coal mines in West Virginia have been closed, and 9,733 jobs -- roughly 35% of the industry's total employment in the state -- have been lost, figures from the West Virginia Coal Association show. 
This has devastated the state's economy. West Virginia has the highest unemployment rate in the country, 6.9% as of October, compared with 5% nationwide. The local unemployment rates for counties in the southern part of the state reach nearly 13%. West Virginia also has the lowest labor-participation rate in the country. Of West Virginians over the age of 16, only 53% have a job or are looking for work, nine percentage points below the U.S. average. 
Some of West Virginia's economic woes are structural. For instance, the state's median age, according to the 2010 census, is 41.3 -- the third highest in the country. That said, there is no denying that the collapse of coal mining has increased hardship and poverty. 
Environmentalists claim that coal is being killed by market forces, including a slump in global commodity prices and increased competition from cheap natural gas. Such arguments ignore the historical fact that spot prices for Henry Hub natural gas have stayed within a range of $2-$4 for the past six years, and that they were even lower in the two decades before 2001. Spot prices for Central Appalachian thermal coal now average $40-$45 a short ton, compared with an average of $30 between 1984 and 2004. The West Virginia Coal Association estimates that the state still is sitting on approximately 51 billion short tons of recoverable coal. 
Corporate failures in a cyclical commodity industry are rarely noteworthy. But things are different this time. Even after rounds of cost-cutting and consolidation, coal-mining companies -- including large and experienced players -- continue to go bankrupt. Some are exiting chapter 11 protection only to return after several months. Others are being liquidated for the scrap value of their mining equipment. Buyers who would normally aim to turn around troubled companies are not stepping in to bid at any price. 
The West Virginia coal industry is no longer dealing with cyclical pressures or the invisible hand of the market; rather, it is facing an existential regulatory threat. In its 2009 "endangerment" finding, the Environmental Protection Agency ruled that greenhouse gases pose a public-health threat. Since then the EPA has put limits on carbon-dioxide emissions from new and existing power plants. Add that to tightened restrictions on mercury and other air pollutants, plus the coercive Renewable Portfolio Standard mandates at the state level. 
The result is that electric utilities have opted to shut down coal-fired power plants rather than invest the capital needed to upgrade them and extend their useful life. The Energy Information Administration projects that over the next five to seven years roughly a third of America's coal-fired generation capacity will be retired. Utility companies are not switching to natural gas to save on fuel; coal is still a cheaper feedstock. But these highly regulated firms see the regulatory writing on the wall. 
Instead of focusing on a hypothetical "social cost of carbon," the Obama administration should consider the real economic effect of its regulation on West Virginia. The rest of the country should speak up, since the loss of coal-fired generation will destabilize the power grid and increase the price of electricity. Oil and gas companies should pay attention, too: For the fossil-fuel industry, Central Appalachia is the canary in the coal mine. 
Mr. Tice is a senior managing director and head of the Energy Capital Group at USCA Asset Management LLC. 
(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: Market and Ideology Hurt Older Coal Mines" -- WSJ Dec. 8, 2015) 
Credit: By Paul H. Tice 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Natural gas; Coal industry; Emissions; Gases; Prices; Industrial plant emissions; Bankruptcy reorganization; Poverty; Unemployment; Coal mining; Environmental protection  
Location  United States--US; West Virginia  
People  Obama, Barack  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  James River Coal Co 212111;  
Name: NAICS:  Patriot Coal 212111;  
Name: NAICS:  Alpha Natural Resources Inc 212112;  
Name: NAICS:  West Virginia Coal Association 813910;  
Name: NAICS:  Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 924110  
Title  Obama's Appalachian Tragedy  
Author  Tice, Paul H  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.19  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Dec 1, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1737910301  

Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1737910301?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 186 of 376 


World News: India Expansion Reflects Dilemma on Clean Energy 
Spindle, Bill.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]01 Dec 2015: A.10. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=World+News%3A+India+Expansion+Reflects+Dilemma+on+Clean+Ene 12-01&volume=&issue=&spage=A.10&au=Spindle%2C+Bill&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
More than 160 countries have submitted plans in Paris for restraining or reducing carbon emissions to contribute to a goal of holding global warming to less than 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) compared with preindustrial times. 

Full Text 
India's combination of growth prospects and greenhouse-gas emissions illustrates how developing countries face a delicate balancing act. 
The country has almost 300 million people, about a third of its population, still living in poverty without access to electricity. Bringing those hundreds of millions access to 
energy while raising the living standards of the rest of India without breaking the carbon budget is one of the central challenges the Paris climate conference aims to tackle. 
"India is so big it swings the balance of whether you get the reduction of warming you want or not. It's paradigmatic," said philanthropist and Microsoft Corp. co-founder Bill 

Gates, who at the conference announced a multibillion-dollar energy-research initiative that includes both the government of India and billionaire Indian investor Mukesh 

Ambani, chairman of Reliance Industries Ltd. 
As India's economy expands and its population grows wealthier and more urban, demand for energy is expected to double by 2040, accounting for roughly 25% of the total 
increase in consumption world-wide, according to the International Energy Agency, which tracks energy trends globally. 

India has promised an ambitious program to expand solar, wind and nuclear power, so that more than half of all new energy capacity brought on line during that time will come from sources other than fossil fuels. Yet even if India accomplishes those goals -- and many experts are skeptical -- the country will still likely also be the fastest-growing consumer of coal and oil in the world by far, the agency said. 
The government of Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said it aims to add 175 gigawatts of wind, solar and other non-fossil fuel capacity by 2022, and to have those 
sources make up 40% of the country's installed electric-power capacity by 2030. 
More than 160 countries have submitted plans in Paris for restraining or reducing carbon emissions to contribute to a goal of holding global warming to less than 2 degrees 
Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) compared with preindustrial times. 

That is the amount to which the international community has decided the planet can manageably adapt. 
Rather than commit to cutting emissions, or target a year for emissions to peak, India's pledge is to chip away at the amount of carbon used to fuel economic growth. 
India was responsible for emitting only about 6% of global emissions in 2014, and just 3% of the cumulative global greenhouse-gas emissions since 1965. 
At talks in Paris on combating climate change, Mr. Modi and French President Francois Hollande unveiled an initiative to get rich and poor countries to cooperate on expanding 

solar power. "It's making the dream of universal access to clean energy become more real," Mr. Modi said Monday. 

Even as solar and wind energy use rise to 324 gigawatts from 24 gigawatts by 2030, the country will also use six times as much coal as its poorest people gain access to 
electricity, the IEA said. 
"[India] didn't create the problem. It isn't really contributing much to the problem now," said Manish Bapna, executive vice president of the World Resources Institute in 

Washington, D.C. "The concern is the pathway India takes over the next 30 years." 

The presumption at the Paris talks is that the biggest historic emitters of carbon will have to make do with less. The U.S. has contributed 24% of carbon emissions between 
1965 and 2014 and 17% of emissions last year. 
The U.S. has pledged by 2025 to cut emissions by 28% from 2005 levels. That is among the more ambitious pledges, but would still leave the U.S. using a disproportionate 

share of the world's overall carbon budget. 

India's energy goals have been assessed as "everything from 'admirably ambitious' to 'heroic' to 'yeah, not going to happen,' " said Rahul Tongia, a fellow with Brookings India, 
an affiliate of the Washington, D.C., think tank. 
Credit: By Bill Spindle 

(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Emissions;  
Carbon;  
Climate change;  
Summit conferences  
Location  India  
People  Hollande, Francois; Ambani, Mukesh D  
Company / organization  Name: Reliance Industries Ltd  
NAICS: 324110;  
Name: Microsoft Corp  
NAICS: 511210, 334614;  
Name: International Energy Agency  
NAICS: 926130, 928120, 541720  
Title  World News: India Expansion Reflects Dilemma on Clean Energy  
Author  Spindle, Bill  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.10  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Dec 1, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1737910244  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1737910244?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 187 of 376 


The Tax Credit Sweepstakes 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]01 Dec 2015: A.18. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=The+Tax+Credit+Sweepstakes&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=009 12-01&volume=&issue=&spage=A.18&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The Congressional Budget Office recently reported that low- and moderate-income Americans face marginal rates of 31% on average in 2016 because they lose benefits like the Earned Income Tax Credit and other transfers when they earn an additional dollar of income. 

Full Text 
The Democratic candidates are conducting a lively fiscal bidding war. Bernie Sanders favors some $18 trillion in new spending over a decade, give or take a few hundred billion, and raising taxes on the middle class -- in part at least -- to pay for it. Hillary Clinton supports somewhat less new spending, but she also disguises a huge chunk of her income transfers through the tax code. 
The former first lady recently proposed a new tax credit for people who help care for their aging parents --only the latest credit she wants to create or expand as she doles out tax favors to her preferred voter groups. Mrs. Clinton is like Oprah Winfrey giving away automobiles to her audience: You get a tax credit, and you get a tax credit, and you get . . . 
There are at least a dozen such proposals so far, which we compile nearby, and her campaign says the inventory will continue to grow. Mrs. Clinton's elderly credit -­presumably targeted at baby boomers with geriatric parents -- would offset 20% of health costs on behalf of family members and would max out at $6,000 per year, providing as much as $1,200 via a lower tax bill. This freebie may come in handy for Chelsea some day if Charlotte's grandmother slips and falls. 
Mrs. Clinton has also discovered the one tax-subsidy box ObamaCare didn't check off. She wants to create an out-of-pocket health expenses tax credit that would be refundable, meaning it becomes a direct cash rebate for people with no income tax liability. This beaut would be worth as much as $5,000 for families and $2,500 for individuals, equal to deductibles and copays above 5% of income. 
For millenials, Mrs. Clinton is promising to retain the $2,500 American Opportunity Tax Credit that the 2009 stimulus instituted to offset college tuition but expires in 2017. She also supports expanding the existing tax credit for child care -- details to come. Then there's her new $1,500 tax credit for every "apprentice" worker a business hires and trains on the job in fields like construction and manufacturing. The value of the credit would be higher if firms are "providing opportunities specifically for young people," according to a fact sheet. 
Reading through Mrs. Clinton's campaign proposals is often a tour d'horizon of the complexity of the modern tax code. She wants to expand the Work Opportunity Tax Credit that is now available to businesses that hire people from what the IRS calls "certain target groups who have consistently faced significant barriers to employment." They include welfare and food-stamp recipients, ex-felons and residents of a federally designated Rural Renewal County or Empowerment Zone. Mrs. Clinton would add disabled veterans to the list. 
She's also embraced the New Markets Tax Credit, a 39% coupon for capital investment in low-income urban neighborhoods. She'd broaden eligibility to extend to anyone allegedly harmed by trade, "a major job-loss event," climate change and her policies meant to mitigate climate change if they lead to declines in coal mining or fossil-fuel electric generation. 
One political lesson of Mrs. Clinton's chicken-in-every-tax-pot pitch is that Republicans are foolish to try to compete with Democrats on tax credits. In 2000 George W. Bush ran on a school supplies credit for teachers, and Marco Rubio is promising a beefed-up child tax credit this year. 
These promises concede the liberal premise that the tax code is an appropriate vehicle for social-policy engineering, and the GOP can always be outbid by Democrats who favor more government intervention. Better for Republicans politically to adhere to the benefits of a simpler, fairer, more efficient system that will contribute to economic growth and rising incomes. 
As for the economics, tax reform is urgent now not least because of the proliferation of tax credits under Mr. Bush and Mrs. Clinton's husband that distort incentives to work, save and invest. They typically reward individuals and businesses for behavior that they'd do anyway (like training entry-level workers). 
At worst they undermine the labor market. Most tax credits are means-tested -- all of Mrs. Clinton's proposals phase out at higher incomes -- and contribute to terrifying effective marginal tax rates. The Congressional Budget Office recently reported that low- and moderate-income Americans face marginal rates of 31% on average in 2016 because they lose benefits like the Earned Income Tax Credit and other transfers when they earn an additional dollar of income. 
By the time Election Day rolls around, our guess is that Mrs. Clinton will have bestowed tax credits on single women, gay weddings, time off to protest the police, and universities that redecorate to remove the memory of alumni who were racist. Maybe she should create a tax credit for people who can identify some sphere of human existence that does not enjoy some form of government mediation. 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Tax credits;  
Tax rates;  
Baby boomers;  
Political campaigns;  
Presidential elections;  
Editorials -- Tax credits  
Location  United States--US  
People  Sanders, Bernard; Clinton, Hillary  
Company / organization  Name: Internal Revenue Service--IRS  
NAICS: 921130  
Title  The Tax Credit Sweepstakes  
Author  Anonymous  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.18  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Dec 1, 2015  
column  REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  1737910168  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1737910168?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 188 of 376 


Your Complete Guide to the Climate Debate 
Ridley, Matt; Peiser, Benny.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]28 Nov 2015: A.11. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Your+Complete+Guide+to+the+Climate+Debate&title=Wall+Street+ 11-28&volume=&issue=&spage=A.11&au=Ridley%2C+Matt%3BPeiser%2C+Benny&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
A key study published in the Journal of Climate this year by Bjorn Stevens of the Max Planck Institute for Meteorology in Hamburg, Germany, found that the cooling impact of sulfate emissions has held back global warming less than thought till now, again implying less sensitivity. 

Full Text 
In February President Obama said, a little carelessly, that climate change is a greater threat than terrorism. Next week he will be in Paris, a city terrorized yet again by mass murderers, for a summit with other world leaders on climate change, not terrorism. What precisely makes these world leaders so convinced that climate change is a more urgent and massive threat than the incessant rampages of Islamist violence? 
It cannot be what is happening to world temperatures, because they have gone up only very slowly, less than half as fast as the scientific consensus predicted in 1990 when the global-warming scare began in earnest. Even with this year's El Nino-boosted warmth threatening to break records, the world is barely half a degree Celsius (0.9 degrees Fahrenheit) warmer than it was about 35 years ago. Also, it is increasingly clear that the planet was significantly warmer than today several times during the past 10,000 years. 
Nor can it be the consequences of this recent slight temperature increase that worries world leaders. On a global scale, as scientists keep confirming, there has been no increase in frequency or intensity of storms, floods or droughts, while deaths attributed to such natural disasters have never been fewer, thanks to modern technology and infrastructure. Arctic sea ice has recently melted more in summer than it used to in the 1980s, but Antarctic sea ice has increased, and Antarctica is gaining land-based ice, according to a new study by NASA scientists published in the Journal of Glaciology. Sea level continues its centuries-long slow rise -- about a foot a century -- with no sign of recent acceleration. 
Perhaps it is the predictions that worry the world leaders. Here, we are often told by journalists that the science is "settled" and there is no debate. But scientists disagree: They say there is great uncertainty, and they reflected this uncertainty in their fifth and latest assessment for the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). It projects that temperatures are likely to be anything from 1.5 to 4.5 degrees Celsius (2.7 to 8.1 degrees Fahrenheit) warmer by the latter part of the century -- that is, anything from mildly beneficial to significantly harmful. 
As for the impact of that future warming, a new study by a leading climate economist, Richard Tol of the University of Sussex, concludes that warming may well bring gains, because carbon dioxide causes crops and wild ecosystems to grow greener and more drought-resistant. In the long run, the negatives may outweigh these benefits, says Mr. Tol, but "the impact of climate change does not significantly deviate from zero until 3.5 degrees C warming." 
Mr. Tol's study summarizes the effect we are to expect during this century: "The welfare change caused by climate change is equivalent to the welfare change caused by an income change of a few percent. That is, a century of climate change is about as good/bad for welfare as a year of economic growth. Statements that climate change is the biggest problem of humankind are unfounded: We can readily think of bigger problems." No justification for prioritizing climate change over terrorism there. 
The latest science on the "sensitivity" of the world's temperature to a doubling of carbon-dioxide levels (from 0.03% of the air to 0.06%) is also reassuring. Several recent peer-reviewed studies of climate sensitivity based on actual observations, including one published in 2013 in Nature Geoscience with 14 mainstream IPCC authors, conclude that this key measure is much lower -- about 30%-50% lower -- than the climate models are generally assuming. 
A key study published in the Journal of Climate this year by Bjorn Stevens of the Max Planck Institute for Meteorology in Hamburg, Germany, found that the cooling impact of sulfate emissions has held back global warming less than thought till now, again implying less sensitivity. So the high end of the IPCC range is looking even more implausible in theory and practice. When politicians intone that, despite the slow warming so far, "two degrees" of warming is inevitable and imminent, remember they are using high estimates of climate sensitivity. 
Yes, but if there is even a tiny chance of catastrophe, should the world not strain every sinew to head it off? Better to decarbonize the world economy and find it was unnecessary than to continue using fossil fuels and regret it. If decarbonization were easy, then sure, this would make sense. But the experience of the last three decades is that there is no energy technology remotely ready to take over from fossil fuels on the scale needed and at a price the public is willing to pay. 
Solar power is cheaper than it was, but even if solar panels were free, the land, infrastructure, maintenance and backup power (for nighttime and cloudy days) would still make it more expensive than gas-fired electricity. Solar provides about 0.5% of the energy generated world-wide. Wind has expanded hugely, but at massive cost, yet still supplies a little more than 1% of all energy generated globally. Nuclear is in slow retreat, and its cost stubbornly refuses to fall. Technological breakthroughs in the production of gas and oil from shale have outpaced the development of low-carbon energy and made it even less competitive. 
Meanwhile, there are a billion people with no grid electricity whose lives could be radically improved -- and whose ability to cope with the effects of weather and climate change could be greatly enhanced -- with the access to the concentrated power of coal, gas or oil that the rich world enjoys. Aid for such projects has already been constrained by Western institutions in the interest of not putting the climate at risk. So climate policy is hurting the poor. 
To put it bluntly, climate change and its likely impact are proving slower and less harmful than we feared, while decarbonization of the economy is proving more painful and costly than we hoped. The mood in Paris will be one of furious pessimism among the well-funded NGOs that will attend the summit in large numbers: Decarbonization, on which they have set their hearts, is not happening, and they dare not mention the reassuring news from science lest it threaten their budgets. 
Casting around for somebody to blame, they have fastened on foot-dragging fossil-fuel companies and those who make skeptical observations, however well-founded, about the likelihood of dangerous climate change. Scientific skeptics are now routinely censored, or threatened with prosecution. One recent survey by Rasmussen Reports shows that 27% of Democrats in the U.S. are in favor of prosecuting climate skeptics. This is the mentality of religious fanaticism, not scientific debate. 
So what will emerge from Paris, when thousands of government officials gather from Nov. 30 to Dec. 11 to agree on a new U.N. climate deal to replace the Kyoto Protocol, which expires in 2020? Expect an agreement that is sufficiently vague and noncommittal for all countries to sign and claim victory. Such an agreement will also have to camouflage deep and unbridgeable divisions while ensuring that all countries are liberated from legally binding targets a la Kyoto. 
The political climate is conducive to such an ineffectual agreement. Concerns about the economy, terrorism and international security have been overshadowing the climate agenda for years. The fact that global warming has slowed significantly over the past two decades has reduced public concern and political pressure in most countries. It has also given governments valuable time to kick painful decisions down the road. 
The next 10-15 years will show whether the global-warming slowdown continues or whether a strong warming trend terminates the current pause for good. The Paris summit is likely to agree to a review process that reassesses global temperatures and carbon-dioxide emissions every five years. If the climate is less sensitive to carbon-dioxide emissions than climate models assume, the new accord should allow for the possibility of carbon-dioxide pledges to be relaxed in line with empirical observations and better scientific understanding. 
Concerned about the loss of industrial competitiveness, the Obama administration is demanding an international transparency-and-review mechanism that can verify whether voluntary pledges are met by all countries. Developing countries, however, oppose any outside body reviewing their energy and industrial activities and carbon-dioxide emissions on the grounds that such efforts would violate their sovereignty. 
They are also resisting attempts by the U.S. and the European Union to end the legal distinction (the so-called firewall) between developing and developed nations. China, India and the "Like-Minded Developing Countries" group are countering Western pressure by demanding a legally binding compensation package of $100 billion a year of dedicated climate funds, as promised by President Obama at the U.N. climate conference in Copenhagen in 2009. 
However, developing nations are only too aware that the $100 billion per annum funding pledge is never going to materialize, not least because the U.S. Congress would never agree to such an astronomical wealth transfer. This failure to deliver is inevitable, but it will give developing nations the perfect excuse not to comply with their own national pledges. 
Both India and China continue to build new coal-fired power stations. China's coal consumption is growing at 2.6% a year, India's at 5%, which is why coal was the fastest-growing fossil fuel last year. China has pledged to reduce energy and carbon intensity, but that is another way of saying it will increase energy efficiency -- it doesn't mean reducing use. 
For the EU, on the other hand, a voluntary climate agreement would finally allow member states to abandon unilateral decarbonization policies that have seriously undermined Europe's competitiveness. The EU has offered to cut carbon-dioxide emissions by 40% below the 1990 level by 2030. However, this pledge is conditional on all nations represented at the Paris summit adopting legally binding carbon-emissions targets similar to and as a carry-over of the Kyoto Protocol. 
According to the EU's key demand, the Paris Protocol must deliver "legally binding mitigation commitments that put the world on track toward achieving the below 2 degrees C objective. . . . Mitigation commitments under the Protocol should be equally legally binding on all Parties." The chances of such an agreement are close to zero. If there are no legally binding carbon targets agreed to in Paris, the EU will be unlikely to make its own conditional pledges legally binding. 
Any climate agreement should be flexible enough so that voluntary pledges can be adjusted over the next couple of decades depending on what global temperatures do. The best we can hope for is a toothless agreement that will satisfy most governments yet allow them to pay lip-service to action. In all likelihood, that's exactly what we can expect to get in Paris. 
Mr. Ridley is a columnist for the Times (U.K.) and a member of the House of Lords; he has an interest in coal mining on his family's land. Mr. Peiser is the director of the Global Warming Policy Forum. 
(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: Armageddon Redux at Paris Climate Debate" -- WSJ December 3, 2015) 
Credit: By Matt Ridley and Benny Peiser 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Scientists; 
Climate change; 
Global warming 


Title 	Your Complete Guide to the Climate Debate 
Author 	Ridley, Matt; Peiser, Benny 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.11 
Publication year 	2015 
Publication date 	Nov 28, 2015 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1736886431  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1736886431?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 189 of 376 


World News: Challenges Mount for Paris Climate Talks --- Terror threats are expected to distract the attention of leaders at summit 
Mauldin, William; Horobin, William.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]27 Nov 2015: A.11. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=World+News%3A+Challenges+Mount+for+Paris+Climate+Talks+--­+Terror+threats+are+expected+to+distract+the+attention+of+leaders+at+summit&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2015-11­27&volume=&issue=&spage=A.11&au=Mauldin%2C+William%3BHorobin%2C+William&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
President Barack Obama and other leaders will face immediate distractions when they huddle just outside the French capital on Monday to kick off a final, two-week effort to reach a global accord. Since the Nov. 13 terror attacks, Paris is under a huge police clampdown, with downtown rallies banned under a national state of emergency. 

Full Text 
The goal for next week's Paris summit was lofty all along: to hatch a climate accord strong enough to keep global warming at bay, built on promises from nearly 200 countries 
to limit their greenhouse-gas emissions. 
President Barack Obama and other leaders will face immediate distractions when they huddle just outside the French capital on Monday to kick off a final, two-week effort to 
reach a global accord. Since the Nov. 13 terror attacks, Paris is under a huge police clampdown, with downtown rallies banned under a national state of emergency. 

Mr. Obama already plans to spend part of his brief time there on antiterrorism talks with French President Francois Hollande. 

Diplomats say the attacks have galvanized world leaders to demonstrate solidarity, increasing the chances of success on the climate front. Still, the recent violence won't soften 
unease over the climate accord in many countries, including the U.S., where Mr. Obama faces stiff opposition from Republicans in Congress and other critics. 
Some big companies -- including several European energy giants and U.S. utilities -- have embraced the Paris talks as a path to greater predictability, including more certainty 

about the future price of carbon-based fuel. 
But the biggest U.S. energy firms have withheld support, and coal giants are warning that efforts to curtail the use of affordable fossil fuels will hurt the poorest countries. 
To succeed, leaders and their negotiators must bridge a decades-old rift between highly industrialized countries, whose growth was founded on the use of fossil fuels, and poorer 

countries demanding financial help for any deal that could impinge on their development. 

Officials backing a climate accord in Paris have spent more than a year warning of rising sea levels, severe droughts and extreme weather that could come in future decades if countries don't take steps now to curb emissions of carbon dioxide and other gases blamed for warming the atmosphere. The main aim is to forge an agreement that would limit emissions enough to keep the average global temperature from rising more than 2 degrees Celsius above preindustrial 
levels -- a threshold agreed upon by scientists over decades and codified by officials at earlier summits. 
But all of the national offers to limit emissions expressed so far, if sealed in a Paris agreement and extended decades into the future, would likely still result in warming of 2.7 

degrees, experts say. That is about 1 degree less warming than would likely occur without a deal. But it also falls significantly short of the 2-degree goal, a frustrating outcome for island nations and other countries where small temperature changes can greatly affect weather and sea levels. The U.S., Europe and other countries want the Paris accord to require countries to renew their emissions targets every five years or so, helping shift the world toward the 2­
degree goal over time. 
"You need successive rounds of new targets that ratchet up ambitions, and we hope that will be on five-year cycles," said Todd Stern, the U.S. special envoy to the talks. 
More vulnerable developing countries want deeper cuts now from advanced economies to help them avoid adverse weather or even, in the case of some Pacific island nations, 

catastrophic inundation as ice caps melt and sea levels rise. Mr. Obama is set to meet leaders of island countries on Tuesday. 
Other developing countries, including India, have resisted any commitments to revisit their targets in five years. 
Emission-reduction plans offered by countries vary considerably, from steep cuts to carbon-dioxide emissions in the U.S. and Europe, to a Chinese goal to peak carbon emissions 

by 2030. 

India's national plan doesn't involve any firm limits on greenhouse gases, although it does commit to bringing a massive amount of solar power online. Indian officials say they won't commit to steps that could prevent hundreds of millions of its citizens from using cheap energy to emerge from poverty. Perhaps the biggest fight between rich and poor countries centers on who will pay for green-energy transitions and climate adaptation in countries that haven't emitted much 
carbon historically and don't have easy access to capital. 
Highly industrialized countries are working toward a 2020 goal of mobilizing $100 billion a year in public and private financing to help poorer countries reduce emissions or prepare for an adverse climate. Officials may pledge in Paris to renew or even increase that level of finding, observers say. "The $100 billion by 2020 -- that's the very first, critical step," said Christiana Figueres, executive secretary of the United Nations climate-change body, in an interview in 
Washington. 
Credit: William Mauldin, William Horobin 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Emissions;  
Greenhouse effect;  
Global warming;  
Carbon;  
Developing countries--LDCs;  
Climate change;  
Terrorism;  
Summit conferences  
Location  United States--US; Paris France; France  
People  Obama, Barack; Hollande, Francois  
Title  World News: Challenges Mount for Paris Climate Talks --- Terror threats are expected to  
distract the attention of leaders at summit  
Author  Mauldin, William; Horobin, William  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.11  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Nov 27, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1737493209  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1737493209?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 190 of 376 


Stocks: Coal Miners Feel the Burn 
Hoyle, Rhiannon.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]27 Nov 2015: C.4. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Stocks%3A+Coal+Miners+Feel+the+Burn&title=Wall+Street+Journal&is 11-27&volume=&issue=&spage=C.4&au=Hoyle%2C+Rhiannon&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Two years of talks on coal with several nongovernmental organizations, including Transparency International, WWF and Germanwatch, influenced the money manager's final call, although Chief Executive Oliver Bate said Allianz is also aware of efforts to slow global warming and what he said are the economic risks involved with coal-focused businesses. 

Full Text 
SYDNEY -- Coal-mining companies whose stock prices have tumbled could use some friends. Instead, they have become the target of campaigners hoping to cast the sector as the new Big Tobacco. 
With a meeting of global leaders to discuss climate change beginning Monday in Paris, the campaign has been building support. This week, German insurer Allianz SE, which manages roughly $2.1 trillion in assets, said it would no longer invest in mining companies or utilities that generate more than 30% of their sales or energy output from coal. 
Allianz has about $4.25 billion invested in coal, mostly in bonds, and will gradually exit from the sector over coming months as they mature. Two years of talks on coal with several nongovernmental organizations, including Transparency International, WWF and Germanwatch, influenced the money manager's final call, although Chief Executive Oliver Bate said Allianz is also aware of efforts to slow global warming and what he said are the economic risks involved with coal-focused businesses. 
Mining firms including Glencore PLC and Anglo American PLC have argued that they are working to make coal cleaner to burn and are important providers of jobs and fuel. But they worry environmental activists may persuade some big money managers to drop them for good. 
"One of the challenges the coal sector faces is an increasingly militant antimining, anticoal campaign," Glencore coal chief Peter Freyberg said in a recent speech. "This campaign fundamentally ignores the global energy reality and the resources required for economic growth and development." 
Coal producers' shares have been hammered this year, as rising supplies and slowing demand push prices to their lowest level in a decade. With economic growth weakening in places such as China and many power generators shifting to gas or renewable energy, global coal shipments are falling for the first time in 21 years, the U.S. Energy Information Administration said. 
Growing antipathy to the fuel among some institutional investors is adding to the pressure. Fund managers -- from the Rockefeller Brothers Fund to religious and academic institutions and industry bodies, such as the Church of England, Canadian Medical Association and Stanford University -- have committed to rid themselves of exposure to coal. Even the city council of Newcastle, in eastern Australia, which is home to the world's biggest coal port, recently voted to abandon fossil-fuel investments. 
Coal is relatively cheap, generating roughly 40% of the world's electricity and fueling many blast furnaces. But its use puts millions of tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere -- making it the leading source of greenhouse-gas emissions thought by many scientists to cause climate change -- and releases pollutants known to harm human health. 
The business also isn't growing much. The International Energy Agency predicts global coal demand will increase just 0.4% a year to 2040, a marked slowdown from the 4.1% annual growth of the past decade and well behind the expansion of sectors such as renewables, which it forecasts will overtake coal as the largest source of power generation by the early 2030s. 
Earlier this year, activists including environmental group Framtiden i vare hender, or Future in our hands, persuaded lawmakers in oil producer Norway to block its nearly $900 billion sovereign-wealth fund from investing in coal stocks. The campaigners argued the fund would be better off investing in other, higher-yielding investments given coal's long-term outlook. 
Coal's malaise makes it hard to distinguish the impact of the divestment from the impact of the poor market. 
Norway's fund has sold stock in mining firms, including Peabody Energy Corp. Its shares are down 93% over the past year, and the company points to the anticoal investment campaign as a risk. 
"The impact of such efforts may adversely affect the demand for and price of securities issued by us, and impact our access to the capital and financial markets," Peabody said in its latest annual report. 
Credit: By Rhiannon Hoyle 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details 
Subject 
Climate change; 
Economic growth; 
Institutional investments; 
Stock prices; 
Coal industry 


Company / organization  Name: Glencore PLC  
NAICS: 211111, 212210, 212234, 311314;  
Name: Transparency International  
NAICS: 813319;  
Name: Anglo American PLC  
NAICS: 212111, 212210, 212221, 212234, 212299, 212392,  
212399  
Classification  9180: International  
8500: Extractive industries  
3400: Investment analysis & personal finance  
Title  Stocks: Coal Miners Feel the Burn  
Author  Hoyle, Rhiannon  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  C.4  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Nov 27, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1736616845  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1736616845?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 191 of 376 


Congress Can Cool Off Obama's Climate Plans 
Barrasso, John.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]25 Nov 2015: A.19. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Congress+Can+Cool+Off+Obama%27s+Climate+Plans&title=Wall+S 11-25&volume=&issue=&spage=A.19&au=Barrasso%2C+John&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The Obama administration has already imposed burdensome regulations -- for instance, the sprawling Clean Power Plan aimed at wiping out the coal industry -- that will raise the cost of energy and put hundreds of thousands of Americans out of work. 

Full Text 
When the U.N. climate-change talks convene in Paris next week, the risks will be high for American taxpayers. President Obama wants a climate deal and is willing to pay dearly to get it. The inevitable outcome is a plan with unproven benefits and unreachable goals, but very real costs. It will be up to Congress to check the president's ambition of committing the U.S. to an international green scheme that will produce little or no return. 
The ostensible goal of the Paris talks (Nov. 30-Dec. 11) is to convince countries to commit to enacting laws that reduce carbon emissions. That fits President Obama's vision of a world without fossil fuels such as coal, oil and natural gas. The American people oppose these policies, but the president has shown himself determined to circumvent Congress. 
The Obama administration has already imposed burdensome regulations -- for instance, the sprawling Clean Power Plan aimed at wiping out the coal industry -- that will raise the cost of energy and put hundreds of thousands of Americans out of work. Now the president wants his negotiators to use these international climate talks to pile on more restrictions. 
This pact is as unnecessary as it will be damaging. America's share of world-wide greenhouse-gas emissions has been declining for more than a decade, to 13% today from 24% in 2000. China pumps out 23% of the world's emissions. Emissions from India, which account for 6%, are expected to triple between 2010 and 2030. 
In an agreement with China, President Obama has already pledged to reduce America's net greenhouse-gas emissions by more than 25% by 2025. In return, China has agreed to "peak" its carbon-dioxide emissions in 2030. In other words, the U.S. will have to make drastic emissions reductions immediately, while China is allowed to carry on for the next 15 years. 
Todd Stern, the chief American negotiator heading to Paris, has tried to justify the disconnect. Mr. Stern recently told the Senate that developing countries need to be allowed to keep emitting so that their economies can continue to grow by 8%-9% a year. "If you're an economy which is growing at eight or nine percent a year because that's the stage of development you're in," he testified, "it's pretty hard to say you're supposed to slam on the brakes and go negative overnight." 
Why should the U.S. accept a plan -- and pay to grease the deal -- that keeps its economy stuck at 2% growth while American taxpayers subsidize other countries' economies growing at 9%? 
Almost as bad is that President Obama will likely pledge $3 billion of taxpayers' money to the U.N.'s Green Climate Fund. Developing nations are eager to accept this cash, which in theory they will use to address the effects of extreme weather. It seems more likely that the money will end up in the pockets of government officials in Africa, Asia and elsewhere. 
If President Obama and the experts in Paris want to help the developing world, they should focus on things that actually will do good, rather than those that will make the negotiators feel good. They could start by helping these countries tap their own energy resources. Building power plants would do more to lift people out of poverty than the Green Climate Fund ever will. 
The envoys in Paris should understand: Congress does not support the president's $3 billion promise. Earlier this year Mr. Obama requested in his budget the first $500 million installment. That budget was voted down 98-1. Congress should continue to reject this spending and insist that any agreement reached in Paris be subject to Senate approval -­regardless of whether or not the administration formally calls it a treaty. 
Whatever comes of the Paris talks, there is reason to be wary. We've seen the Obama administration's negotiating skills. Anyone who watched the Iran nuclear agreement play out has good reason to be nervous about the concessions this administration will make in closed-door negotiations. 
Consider that Russian President Vladimir Putin has reportedly bankrolled environmental causes in Europe to stop fossil-fuel exploration. It is a cynical ploy to stifle competition so that he can continue to hold Europe hostage to Russian energy exports. Yet President Obama seems to be playing into Mr. Putin's plans. 
Other countries will gladly support a deal that transfers money to them while weakening the U.S. They are sure to praise President Obama's "leadership" in the process. The question is whether the American people -- and Congress -- will allow such a deal to slip by, or whether they will stand up and be heard. 
Mr. Barrasso, a Republican, represents Wyoming in the U.S. Senate. 
Credit: By John Barrasso 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Economic growth;  
Industrial plant emissions;  
Climate change;  
International agreements;  
Emissions control;  
Environmental policy  
Location  United States--US  
People  Stern, Todd  
Company / organization  Name: Congress  
NAICS: 921120  
Classification  1540: Pollution control  
1110: Economic conditions & forecasts  
9190: United States  
Title  Congress Can Cool Off Obama's Climate Plans  
Author  Barrasso, John  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.19  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Nov 25, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1735861102  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1735861102?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 192 of 376 


U.S. News: Senate Takes a Stand Against Obama Carbon Rules 
Harder, Amy.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]18 Nov 2015: A.5. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+Senate+Takes+a+Stand+Against+Obama+Carbon+Ru 11-18&volume=&issue=&spage=A.5&au=Harder%2C+Amy&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R., Ky.) and other lawmakers from coal-dependent states argued that the EPA rules are killing U.S. jobs without any sizable impact on climate change. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- The Senate voted Tuesday to strike down regulations aimed at cutting carbon emissions from power plants, the first congressional action against President Barack Obama's climate-change agenda. 
The move comes less than two weeks before a global conference on climate change in Paris, where Mr. Obama hopes to show U.S. leadership. 
In two votes, the Senate passed measures nullifying recently completed Environmental Protection Agency rules cutting carbon emissions from power plants. 
Citing the rules' importance to public health and climate change, the White House said Tuesday that Mr. Obama would veto the measures. Congress likely doesn't have the votes to override such a veto. 
Congressional Republicans nonetheless hope to send a symbolic message sowing doubt among other nations that Mr. Obama will be able to take decisive steps to address the issue of climate change. 
One of the EPA rules calls for a 32% cut in carbon emissions from hundreds of mainly coal-fired power plants across the U.S. by 2030 based on 2005 emissions levels. The second rule sets new standards for power plants not yet built, and that could make it difficult to build future power plants fueled by coal. 
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R., Ky.) and other lawmakers from coal-dependent states argued that the EPA rules are killing U.S. jobs without any sizable impact on climate change. "Their effect on global carbon levels? Essentially a rounding error," Mr. McConnell said Tuesday. "Their effect on poor and middle-class families? Potentially devastating." 
Mr. Obama says that even if the regulations by themselves won't slow climate change, they show U.S. leadership on the global stage leading up to United Nations climate negotiations set to begin Nov. 30. 
Credit: By Amy Harder 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Climate change; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Emissions control; 
Environmental regulations 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Obama, Barack; McConnell, Mitch 
Company / organization 	Name: Congress 

NAICS: 921120; 

Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA NAICS: 924110 
Classification 1540: Pollution control 4310: Regulation 
9190: United States 
Title  U.S. News: Senate Takes a Stand Against Obama Carbon Rules  
Author  Harder, Amy  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.5  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Nov 18, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1733864921  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1733864921?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 193 of 376 


Big Issues in Energy (A Special Report) --- Does Burning Garbage for Electricity Make Sense? 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]16 Nov 2015: R.6. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Big+Issues+in+Energy+%28A+Special+Report%29+--­+Does+Burning+Garbage+for+Electricity+Make+Sense%3F&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2015-11­16&volume=&issue=&spage=R.6&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Many communities -- in nearly 40 countries -- have concluded that it makes sense to burn such waste, not only to reduce landfill space needs, but as a means of producing energy economically and with less harm to the environment than consigning garbage to landfills or burning fossil fuels. Studies by the Environmental Protection Agency and academia have shown that diverting one ton of municipal solid waste from sanitary landfills to waste-burning plants reduces greenhouse-gas emissions by at least half a ton of carbon dioxide per ton of waste. 

Full text 
The amount of garbage produced by the world's urban dwellers is growing at an astonishing clip. The World Bank has estimated that countries are generating 1.4 billion tons of municipal solid waste each year and forecasts that this number will double by 2025. 
What is to be done with all of that stuff? 
Governments and businesses have been working to change product packaging and consumer behavior to reduce the materials we throw away. In combination with recycling and composting efforts, these changes have helped significantly reduce garbage being buried in landfills. 
One option for dealing with the remaining trash -- burning waste to generate electricity -- has been adopted in several countries but has encountered stiff opposition in the U.S., where about 12% of municipal solid waste is burned for energy. 
Supporters of waste-to-energy plants say such facilities reduce the need for land for dumps, lower the cost of moving trash around the country and provide an alternative source of power. 
But for opponents, burning waste to produce energy is the least desirable way to deal with garbage. Such plants pollute the air, and their high capital costs can divert resources from waste-reduction and recycling efforts, the critics say. 
YES 
It's Better Than Landfills 
By Nickolas J. Themelis 
Waste dumps are an age-old means of disposing of municipal solid waste that in developed nations in the past few decades have evolved into sanitary landfills. However, as cities run out of space for landfills, they have to transport their garbage to faraway sites -- or find ways to produce less waste. 
Many communities -- in nearly 40 countries -- have concluded that it makes sense to burn such waste, not only to reduce landfill space needs, but as a means of producing energy economically and with less harm to the environment than consigning garbage to landfills or burning fossil fuels. 
Here are some of the reasons Germany and other nations in Europe and Asia have concluded that it makes sense to burn municipal solid waste instead of using landfills: 
Land conservation: A waste-to-energy plant of one million tons capacity can be built on 20 acres and over a lifetime of 40 years or more help avoid conversion of 1,000 acres to landfills. 
Preservation of nonrenewable resources: To generate 500 kilowatt-hours of electricity, the average waste-to-energy plant in the U.S. burns one ton of waste, while a coal-burning power plant must burn one-third of a ton of coal. The carbon emitted is roughly equal, but only a third of the carbon in the waste is fossil-based, so fewer nonrenewable resources are used. No one is arguing, by the way, that waste-to-energy plants should replace coal- or natural-gas-fired plants. But as power producers, they do offer benefits that landfills lack. Methane that sanitary landfills capture for energy produces a theoretical 120 kilowatt-hours per ton. The average production of electricity from all U.S. landfills is only 50 kilowatt-hours per ton of solids landfilled. 
Effect on recycling: Burning waste for energy doesn't discourage recycling, as some critics have claimed. Several studies have shown that states and countries that recycle are also big users of waste-to-energy. Also, 90% of postrecycling waste in the U.S. is currently landfilled, presenting a good fuel supply. 
Environmental quality: A recent Columbia University study showed that total dioxin emissions of U.S. waste-to-energy plants in 2012 were 0.09% of all dioxin emissions in the 
U.S. Spontaneous landfill fires in the U.S. in 2012 produced more than 400 times as much dioxins. It is true that waste-burning plants require sophisticated air-pollution controls, but landfills have no such controls on the gases they emit in the atmosphere. 
Mitigation of climate change: Studies by the Environmental Protection Agency and academia have shown that diverting one ton of municipal solid waste from sanitary landfills to waste-burning plants reduces greenhouse-gas emissions by at least half a ton of carbon dioxide per ton of waste. 
Fiscal advantage: Waste-to-energy plants require a large upfront capital investment. But most of the hundreds of U.S. municipalities that built them two and three decades ago have benefited financially. Such plants earn higher gate fees than landfills do, and they produce electricity. 
Prof. Themelis is director of the Earth Engineering Center at Columbia University. Email him at reports@wsj.com. 
NO 
The Costs Are Too High 
By Jeffrey Morris 
Burning garbage to produce electricity is a terrible idea, for both economic and environmental reasons -- including the harm it can do to a community's efforts to recycle and compost. 
Here are the main reasons why we shouldn't burn garbage for power: 
It is inefficient: Incineration converts less than 25% of material energy in garbage into marketed electricity, compared with about 35% for coal and as much as 45% for some natural-gas systems. Even landfill methane burns with about 35% efficiency. Better still, recycling discarded items -- reducing the need for manufacturing and packaging -­saves three to five times as much energy as incinerating them generates. 
It harms the environment: Burning garbage emits 1.5 times as much carbon dioxide per kilowatt-hour generated as coal and three times as much as natural gas. Waste-to­energy plants require costly air-pollution controls to reduce emissions of hazardous metals and chemicals. Even with such controls, garbage burning is more harmful to humans and the ecosystem than fossil fuels. Claims that waste-burning emissions contain only a small fraction of dioxins released by landfill fires are based on tests and data that are biased. Plant operators are warned well in advance of testing dates. And landfill-fire data include open, unlined dumps and landfills that do not capture explosive emissions, neither of which are representative of modern landfills. 
It releases carbon, while landfills store it: Incineration spews virtually all of the carbon in burnable garbage materials into the atmosphere as carbon dioxide. Landfills store all of the carbon found in nonbiodegradable materials like plastics and glass, and some of the carbon in materials that break down over time: Amounts of carbon stored for biodegradable materials range from more than 80% for wood and newsprint to less than 20% for food scraps; leaves, other paper types, cardboard and grass are somewhere in between. 
Modern landfills have smaller climate footprints: Studies which claim that waste-to-energy plants reduce greenhouse-gas emissions more than landfills typically don't count all of the carbon-dioxide such plants emit. They also base their comparisons, in part, on landfills that either do not attempt to capture methane or do a poor job of it. Newer landfills, which grab and burn methane for electricity, release less carbon than incinerating the solid waste that generates it. Thus, communities that combine modern landfills with composting organics and recycling do less environmental harm than plants that burn solid waste for electricity. 
It is more expensive than land-filling: Disposal costs for waste-to-energy plants -- net of revenue from generated energy -- are 35% to 50% higher than disposal costs for land­filling. Such facilities typically commit a community to throwing away a set amount of garbage each year to meet plant production requirements, thus inhibiting recycling and composting efforts. 
Dr. Morris is an economist and president of Sound Resource Management Group. Email him at reports@wsj.com. 

(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject Emissions; 
Recycling; 
Dioxins; 
Carbon; 
Industrial plant emissions; 
Electricity; 
Capital costs; 
Coal; 
Landfill; 
Series & special reports;  
Waste management industry;  
Municipal solid waste  
Location  United States--US  
Title  Big Issues in Energy (A Special Report) --- Does Burning Garbage for Electricity Make Sense?  
Author  Anonymous  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  R.6  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Nov 16, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Feature  
ProQuest document ID  1733093458  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1733093458?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 194 of 376 


Clinton's Coal Reparations 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]14 Nov 2015: A.10. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Clinton%27s+Coal+Reparations&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=009 11-14&volume=&issue=&spage=A.10&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
First destroy coal jobs to please affluent liberals over climate change, then tax all Americans more to buy the support of the workers who had those jobs. 

Full Text 
Hillary Clinton has promised to continue the Obama Administration's carbon cleanse of the U.S. economy, which is proving to be politically toxic in coal country. So this week she rolled out a plan for government to rescue the coal miners who the government has put out of work. 
Coal production nationwide has declined by about 15% since 2008. A Duke University study in April estimated that 50,000 coal jobs were lost between 2008 and 2012, with Appalachia, Utah and Colorado among the biggest victims. Unemployment in eastern Kentucky exceeds 8% and is in the double digits in southern West Virginia. 
Shale fracking for natural gas has contributed to the carnage, but the Environmental Protection Agency has assisted by promulgating rules on mercury emissions and ash disposal. The Administration's new Clean Power Plan will finish off the industry, which still accounts for about a third of U.S. electric generation and two-thirds in Ohio and Iowa. 
Several coal companies are slouching toward bankruptcy, which could cause retirees and laid-off workers to lose health coverage. In May Patriot Coal filed for Chapter 11 for the second time in three years. Thousands of workers fear they'll be forced into Medicaid or the ObamaCare exchanges. 
The United Mine Workers multiemployer pension plan is edging toward insolvency. If the fund goes broke, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation will pay retirees a maximum annual pension of $12,870. Congress last year passed legislation allowing trustees of multiemployer plans to modify benefits to keep the funds afloat and prevent more severe cuts. 
But Mrs. Clinton wants to purchase miner support, so her $30 billion plan would bail out the UMW's pension and health plans as well as those of power plant and transportation workers hurt by coal bankruptcies. She also wants to offset reduced public school property tax revenues in communities with stranded coal plants. 
To make up for the job losses, there's money for high-speed broadband, roads, bridges, water systems, airports, public health centers and renewable energy. Her plan also includes tax credits for investors, funding for arts and culture programs, as well as local food and agriculture businesses. 
Her political goal is to staunch Democrats' leaking support among blue-collar communities. Last week Republicans took the Kentucky governorship for only the second time in 44 years. In 2014 the GOP picked up Senate seats in Alaska, Arkansas, Louisiana, Iowa, Colorado, West Virginia, Montana, North Carolina, South Dakota and came close in Virginia. Next year Republicans are defending Senate seats in Wisconsin, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Illinois -- states President Obama won in 2012 but save for the Land of Lincoln may be in play in the presidential election. 
So here we have the progressive policy arc made clear: First destroy coal jobs to please affluent liberals over climate change, then tax all Americans more to buy the support of the workers who had those jobs. How about not destroying the jobs in the first place? 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Multiemployer pension plans; 
Coal industry; 

Coal-fired power plants; 
Editorials -- Clinton, Hillary 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Clinton, Hillary 
Company / organization 	Name: United Mine Workers of America--UMWA 

NAICS: 813930 


Title 	Clinton's Coal Reparations 
Author  Anonymous  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.10  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Nov 14, 2015  
column  REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  1732921055  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1732921055?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 195 of 376 


Keystone Is a Fake Green Victory 
Jenkins, Holman W, Jr.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]11 Nov 2015: A.17. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Keystone+Is+a+Fake+Green+Victory&title=Wall+Street+Journal&iss 11-11&volume=&issue=&spage=A.17&au=Jenkins%2C+Holman+W%2C+Jr&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
[...]80% of the world's fossil-fuel reserves are not held by publicly traded businesses, but by state-run companies -- run by states that have never shown interest in anything but revenue maximization. -- [...]it's partway happening thanks to fracking despite shrinking nuclear output (the only category that shrank in 2014). 

Full Text 
By all means, read Bill McKibben's victory proclamation on Keystone XL posted by the New Yorker, first for its infantile analysis. 
-- He sees Keystone as a harbinger, which it surely is: President Obama waited seven years to kill the pipeline, then did so when he no longer had to face voters and when gasoline prices are near an all-time low in real terms. If abundant fossil fuels is what it takes to afford Mr. McKibben such victories, well, you can see the paradox. 
-- He celebrates the divestment movement as if it means anything. But buyers will always materialize for profitable businesses. Anyway, 80% of the world's fossil-fuel reserves are not held by publicly traded businesses, but by state-run companies -- run by states that have never shown interest in anything but revenue maximization. 
-- He thinks solar is somehow changing the energy picture, but for every additional unit of solar the world consumed in 2014, it consumed 325 additional units of fossil energy. 
-- He is fooled by warnings from the BlackRock investment house and Mark Carney of the Bank of England about fossil-fuel reserves becoming "stranded assets," as if energy shares are priced in the expectation that 100% of hydrocarbon reserves will be produced. 
All assets are liable to become stranded, i.e., not profitable. This is called risk. There hasn't been a day in the past four decades when energy investors haven't complacently priced into shares the prospect of legislation or regulation depressing their returns. Remember the Clinton-Gore BTU tax proposal? 
The colossal lie that greenies tell themselves is that the machinations of Exxon are what's holding up climate policy. Big Oil is an attractive villain to eco activists because Big Oil is already a villain to the public, but mainly because the public suspects Big Oil of conspiring to hike gas prices. 
Guess what? Environmentalists are also suspected of wanting higher gas prices. Maybe this is why setting themselves up as the enemy of oil companies hasn't gelled into public support for their energy policies. 
The obstacle isn't Exxon, or even the uncertainties of climate science, which are interesting only to a handful of reporters who actually take climate science (as opposed to climate religion) seriously. Standing in the way has always and only been the politics of energy prices. Even Mr. Obama has shown no interest in risking his political career over climate, explaining, "Gas prices are one of those things that really bug people. . . . The gas tax hasn't been increased in 20 years. There is a reason for that." 
Or consider America's absurd, convoluted policy of regulating vehicle fuel mileage, which exists as a continuing, 40-year testament to the impossibility of enacting higher gas prices. 
Making fossil fuels the villain is silly anyway. We need fossil fuels until and unless we find a technological substitute. Picking on Exxon is attacking an available punching bag, but the reality is that coal is the primary greenhouse offender. Even with current technology, coal could realistically be pushed out of the power generation market by natural gas (it emits half the carbon dioxide) and nuclear (it emits none). In fact, it's partway happening thanks to fracking despite shrinking nuclear output (the only category that shrank in 2014). In such a world, the 8% of carbon dioxide produced by running the world's passenger cars on gasoline is a rounding error. 
This is not a counsel of despair for climate worriers, but a counsel to grow up. Given the rate of technological change, who really wants to bet that they know what systems of energy storage and distribution earthlings will be using 50 years on? 
But likely the revolution won't be happening in the U.S., as Microsoft founder Bill Gates implicitly testified when he brought his supersafe traveling wave reactor prototype to China because America wasn't interested. China needs such technology because it likes to breathe, never mind any concerns about global warming. 
The carbon dioxide problem, if carbon dioxide is a problem, isn't going to be solved by banning fossil fuels or begging them to stay in the ground. The problem will be solved by coming up with alternative energy technology that improves on fossil fuels in a sizable share of applications not only for environmental reasons, but for cost and utility reasons. 
If this happens or it doesn't, Mr. McKibben's moaning and histrionics will be seen in retrospect to have been magisterially irrelevant. Like lab rodents learning to push a lever for a cocaine injection, today's climate activists operate on a very low kind of learning. They've learned how to attract attention and dramatize themselves but not how to enact policies that might actually be useful in the long run. 
For serious, non-narcissistic climate worriers, the only hope is that the discredit that many of today's activists and scientists have brought on the cause will come out in the wash. 
Credit: By Holman W. Jenkins, Jr. 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Fossil fuels;  
Climate science;  
Environmental policy;  
Carbon dioxide;  
Natural gas;  
Gasoline prices;  
Oil reserves;  
Pipelines  
People  Obama, Barack; McKibben, Bill  
Title  Keystone Is a Fake Green Victory  
Author  Jenkins, Holman W, Jr  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.17  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Nov 11, 2015  
column  Business World  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1732232350  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1732232350?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 196 of 376 


The Tombstone Pipeline 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]07 Nov 2015: A.10. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=The+Tombstone+Pipeline&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660 11-07&volume=&issue=&spage=A.10&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Business, consumers, labor unions and America's No. 1 trading partner Canada also wanted to connect Alberta's oil sands to Gulf Coast refineries, which would create thousands of jobs and strengthen energy security. 

Full Text 
President Obama personally killed the Keystone XL pipeline on Friday, dismissing the project as a mere "symbol" that "has occupied what I, frankly, consider an overinflated role in our political discourse." The irony is that the pipeline's benefits would be tangible, while the symbolism and overinflation are entirely political. 
A President more invested in the real economy would have long ago welcomed Keystone's contribution to North American energy development. But on Friday Mr. Obama emerged, seven years into both his Presidency and multiple State Department reviews of the pipeline, to declare that Keystone is not in the national interest of the United States. 
This position is -- to borrow his phrase -- well outside the bipartisan political center. Mr. Obama would have been more honest if he'd admitted that he is bowing to the interests of the green-left fringe and the Democratic donors who oppose all forms of carbon energy. 
A broad Congressional majority voted to approve Keystone this year, including nine Democrats in the Senate and 28 in the House, falling only a few votes short of a veto override. Business, consumers, labor unions and America's No. 1 trading partner Canada also wanted to connect Alberta's oil sands to Gulf Coast refineries, which would create thousands of jobs and strengthen energy security. 
Even as he killed Keystone, Mr. Obama urged Congress to "pass a serious infrastructure plan." But what are pipelines if not the definition of infrastructure -- and this one shovel-ready besides, at no cost to taxpayers? Even Mr. Obama conceded that Keystone is not "the express lane to climate disaster," and the State Department determined the pipeline would reduce CO2 emissions by displacing oil transport via truck and rail. Then why reject it? 
To promote his climate-change ambitions, by Mr. Obama's own admission. Mr. Obama said in his statement Friday that the U.S. "is now a global leader" on climate change "and frankly, approving this project would have undercut that global leadership." So he will now dump Keystone's corpse at the Paris global-warming summit in the coming weeks and demand that other countries make their own ritual sacrifices. 
Mr. Obama suggested that "other big emitters like China" will be impressed. Yet only this week the Chinese revealed that their coal use is 17% higher than previously thought. China is such a heavy carbon user that this 17% wedge alone amounts to 70% of all U.S. coal emissions. If this correction in any way revises Mr. Obama's climate pact with Chinese President Xi Jinping, he didn't mention it. 
The larger and more dangerous symbolism is what Mr. Obama's refusal reveals about today's Democratic Party. Liberals used to favor a price on carbon, which would be damaging enough for economic growth. Now they believe fossil fuels must remain underground forever and favor any obstruction against their development. Hillary Clinton now embraces this same philosophy. 
Maybe Keystone can be revived in the next Administration, assuming a Republican wins the Presidency and the TransCanada company hasn't written off America as too politically risky. For now, workers and the economy will have to suffer for Mr. Obama's green illusions. 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Pipelines; 
Emissions control; 
Climate change; 
Political leadership; 
Environmental protection; 
Editorials -- Pipelines 


Location 	United States--US 
Company / organization 	Name: TransCanada Keystone Pipeline GP Ltd 

NAICS: 486110 


Classification  8510: Petroleum industry  
9190: United States  
1540: Pollution control  
Title  The Tombstone Pipeline  
Author  Anonymous  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.10  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Nov 7, 2015  
column  REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  1731422288  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1731422288?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 197 of 376 


In Exxon War, Bamboozled by Greenies 
Jenkins, Holman, Jr.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]07 Nov 2015: A.11. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=In+Exxon+War%2C+Bamboozled+by+Greenies&title=Wall+Street+J 11-07&volume=&issue=&spage=A.11&au=Jenkins%2C+Holman%2C+Jr&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Lest they be left behind and called "deniers," Bernie Sanders, Martin O'Malley, the attorney general of New York and Al Gore this week all demanded criminal investigation of Exxon Mobil as a result of recent media "exposes." Vice President Al Gore endlessly harped on climate change -- yet when confronted with a modest uptick in gasoline prices during his presidential run, insisted that President Clinton open the strategic reserve to keep gas prices low. 

Full Text 
Scurry on board the Exxon prosecution express. Lest they be left behind and called "deniers," Bernie Sanders, Martin O'Malley, the attorney general of New York and Al Gore this week all demanded criminal investigation of Exxon Mobil as a result of recent media "exposes." 
Hillary Clinton in New Hampshire on Thursday agreed, saying, "There's a lot of evidence that they misled people." 
Not one of these worthies likely examined the evidence, which tells a story quite different from the claim that Exxon somehow concealed its understanding of the climate debate. But the hurdle rate for "investigative" journalism has apparently become low. The allegedly damning documents that the Los Angeles Times and the website Inside Climate News (ICN) claim to have unearthed were published by Exxon itself, in peer-reviewed journals, on its website, and in archives created by Exxon for public use. 
Technically, the reporters wallow in the equivocation fallacy. Uncertainty about whether X=2 is not the same as uncertainty about whether 2+2=4. Acknowledging and even studying man's impact on the climate, as Exxon has done and continues to do, is not tantamount to endorsing a green policy agenda of highly questionable value. 
And that's the real problem. Read closely and the accusation isn't really that Exxon misled the public by emphasizing the uncertainties of climate science, which are real. It's that Exxon refused to sign up for a vision of climate doom that would justify large and immediate costs to reduce fossil fuel use. 
This fantasy is summed up in the ICN series by Penn State climatologist Michael Mann, who is quoted as saying, "All it would've taken is for one prominent fossil fuel CEO to know this was about more than just shareholder profits." 
But wait, hasn't this experiment been run? In the early 2000s, BP CEO John Browne began sounding a climate alarm. Ron Oxburgh, the chairman of Shell, gave a speech warning of planetary doom. In 2007, Alcoa, GE, Duke Energy, Ford, DuPont and others endorsed a U.S. cap-and-trade bill. All this failed to move the ball in two successive congresses, though, because Senate Democrats (the second time joined by President Obama) didn't want to be blamed for jacking up gasoline prices. 
The same experiment has also been run globally. Out of 196 countries, 196 have concluded that there is no way, with current technology, to take a big enough whack out of carbon-dioxide emissions at a cost their societies would be prepared to bear. 
Even Mr. Obama's decision on Friday to nix the Keystone XL pipeline came at a time of low gas prices when he will never face voters again, and in full knowledge that his decision won't impede Canada's development of its oil sands. 
The narrative of Exxon's supposedly criminal deceit may be loopy, but save your real contempt for the climate lawyers now rubbing their hands over a Big Tobacco-style lawsuit. In effect, their cynical reasoning is that Exxon can be punished for failing to conceal its awareness of the climate debate. 
But why stop at Exxon? President Obama is aware of the threat of climate change -- he talks about it all the time -- yet has presided over an expansion of oil and gas leasing. Vice President Al Gore endlessly harped on climate change -- yet when confronted with a modest uptick in gasoline prices during his presidential run, insisted that President Clinton open the strategic reserve to keep gas prices low. 
Maybe the tobacco analogy is apt after all. Recall that the result of government lawsuits wasn't to ban tobacco use but to make government (and organized crime) the main beneficiary of tobacco revenues. The U.S. government controls 31% of America's mineral rights, and has 42,000 drilling leases in effect covering 80 million acres. Federal lands produce 41% of America's coal output. Elsewhere, governments control 100% of mineral rights. Wherever it operates these days, Exxon is mainly an agent for governments determined to realize oil revenues regardless of any climate fears. 
But the big lie here is that any Exxon spectacle would be aimed at advancing the cause of climate policy anyway. Especially sad is the decision by Fred Krupp of the Environmental Defense Fund to sign a group letter calling for a criminal inquiry, though he mealy-mouthed his participation by saying "We don't have all the facts. We're not prejudging what happened." 
Mr. Krupp was last seen blaming the "shrillness that has permeated our advocacy" for the Senate defeats, and calling for a "more reasoned" and "calmer discussion" that is diametrically the opposite of the Exxon witch trial now being whipped up. 
At least until this week, Mr. Krupp was an outlier, devoting himself to the coalition-building that is indispensable for real policy progress (and Exxon for the past six years has been a public supporter of a carbon tax). But Mr. Krupp's fellow climate campaigners clearly have other priorities. 
(See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: We Seek the Facts on Exxon's Climate Studies" -- WSJ Nov. 14, 2015) 
Credit: By Holman Jenkins, Jr. 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Petroleum industry;  
Fossil fuels;  
Environmental policy;  
Misrepresentation;  
Climate change  
Location  United States--US  
Company / organization  Name: Environmental Defense Fund  
NAICS: 541720, 813312;  
Name: Exxon Mobil Corp  
NAICS: 447110, 211111  
Classification  8510: Petroleum industry  
9190: United States  
1540: Pollution control  
Title  In Exxon War, Bamboozled by Greenies  
Author  Jenkins, Holman, Jr  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.11  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Nov 7, 2015  
column  Business World  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1731422106  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1731422106?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  

Database US Newsstream 
document 198 of 376 


World News: Climate Aid Clouds Summit 
Mauldin, William.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]05 Nov 2015: A.11. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=World+News%3A+Climate+Aid+Clouds+Summit&title=Wall+Street+Jou 11-05&volume=&issue=&spage=A.11&au=Mauldin%2C+William&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
A report last month from the leading group of developed countries -- the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development -- estimated that more affluent countries delivered $61.8 billion in financing last year to help developing economies limit carbon emissions and fend off extreme weather and rising sea levels. 

Full Text 
Poorer nations' demand that wealthier countries help bankroll their transition to cleaner energy has emerged as the biggest obstacle for world leaders seeking to reach an agreement on emissions at a summit that begins this month. 
World leaders arrive in Paris in late November with the aim of negotiating an agreement to slash carbon-dioxide emissions beyond 2020. But many developing countries say highly industrialized nations haven't yet pledged enough to help them transition to lower-carbon energy or to prepare for the effects of a more adverse climate. 
"Finance is a very big issue in this negotiation," said Todd Stern, the U.S. special envoy for climate change, in an interview. 
The latest round of climate negotiations organized through the United Nations was meant to blur the line between highly industrialized, richer countries that have burned large amounts of fossil fuels for more than a century and the poorer, developing countries that still rely on burning more coal and oil to achieve rapid growth and lift hundreds of millions out of poverty. 
Rather than assigning across-the-board reductions in emissions of greenhouse gases, the Paris talks allow countries to set their own emissions targets based on their particular level of development. That approach will prevent the Paris accord from limiting global warming as much as officials had sought, but it may allow for a politically palatable deal that brings China and other big emerging markets to the table to limit emissions down the road. 
Still, the split between richer and poorer countries persists in the area of finance: The participation of many developing countries -- including their decision on whether to sign on to the agreement next month -- is based on richer countries following through with plans to mobilize money. 
"One of the pieces that is very, very critical for this process is to provide that transparent support to developing countries," said Christiana Figueres, head of the United Nations Framework on Climate Change, in an interview in Washington. 
The stated goal is for richer countries to kick in $100 billion a year of their own money and related private financing for developing nations by 2020. A report last month from the leading group of developed countries -- the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development -- estimated that more affluent countries delivered $61.8 billion in financing last year to help developing economies limit carbon emissions and fend off extreme weather and rising sea levels. 
Ms. Figueres and other leading officials say the figures from the OECD show progress, but not all developing countries are satisfied. 
"Those numbers haven't been consulted with or accepted by developing countries," said Ms. Figueres. 
Paul Bledsoe, a former climate official in the Clinton White House and consultant in Washington, said "The big threat is that there's a bloc of countries that basically says, 'No, no, wait a second, we believe the whole climate-finance system is inadequate,' and they make a big demonstration, and they walk out of the meetings." 
Credit: By William Mauldin 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Emissions control; 
Developing countries--LDCs; 
Summit conferences 


Title 	World News: Climate Aid Clouds Summit 
Author 	Mauldin, William 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages  A.11  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Nov 5, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1729694338  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1729694338?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 199 of 376 


U.S. News: U.S. Watch 

Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]04 Nov 2015: A.8. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+U.S.+Watch&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=0099966 11-04&volume=&issue=&spage=A.8&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
EPA 18 States Back Rules On Power Plants A group of 18 states is expected to ask a federal court Wednesday to intervene in support of Obama administration regulations that require significant emissions cuts from hundreds of U.S. power plants. 

Full Text 
EPA 
18 States Back Rules 
On Power Plants 
A group of 18 states is expected to ask a federal court Wednesday to intervene in support of Obama administration regulations that require significant emissions cuts from 

hundreds of U.S. power plants. 
The move means most states are taking sides in a legal battle over a top Environmental Protection Agency initiative on reducing carbon-dioxide emissions. 
New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, who is leading the coalition, said the EPA's new rule "is a critical step forward in responding to the threat of climate change" and 

the intervening states were committed to joining the EPA in defending it aggressively. 

The move will pit his group of states -- including California, Massachusetts and Virginia -- against more than two dozen others that sued the EPA last month, shortly after the 
agency's rules were officially published. 
Those challengers, including coal-dependent states like West Virginia and Kentucky, argue the agency exceeded its powers. 
-- Brent Kendall 

OSHA 
Fines to Rise, First 
Time Since 1990 
Federal penalties for workplace-safety violations were increased this week for the first time since 1990, thanks to a little-noticed provision of the budget bill signed into law by 

President Barack Obama. 
The move would bring the fines in line with inflation over the past 25 years. In the future, fines from the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration and state 

workplace-safety agencies would continue to rise with inflation. But even after an expected increase of about 80%, OSHA fines will remain tiny compared to those issued by many other regulatory agencies. The new fines are due to be set sometime next year. Workplace-safety experts said they were caught by surprise by the new mandate, which they say will likely increase maximum fines for the most severe citations to $125,000 
from $70,000 and for other serious violations to $12,500 from $7,000. -- Alexandra Berzon 
MISSOURI Supreme Court Delays Execution The U.S. Supreme Court on Tuesday put on hold the execution of a Missouri man convicted of beating three people to death with a claw hammer. Ernest Lee Johnson claims the execution drug could cause painful seizures because he still has part of a benign tumor in his brain. The Supreme Court granted a stay while an 
appeals court considers whether Mr. Johnson's complaint was properly dismissed. -- Associated Press 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Power plants;  
Industrial plant emissions;  
Fines & penalties  
Location  United States--US; California; Massachusetts; West Virginia; New York  
People  Obama, Barack; Schneiderman, Eric  
Company / organization  Name: Occupational Safety & Health Administration--OSHA  
NAICS: 926150;  
Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS: 924110;  
Name: Supreme Court-US  
NAICS: 922110;  
Name: Associated Press-NYC  
NAICS: 519110  
Title  U.S. News: U.S. Watch  
Author  Anonymous  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.8  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Nov 4, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1729236213  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1729236213?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2019-05-28  

Database US Newsstream 
document 200 of 376 


Business News: NRG Chief Alters His Green Goals --- Money-losing investments in renewable energy didn't sit well with investors 
Smith, Rebecca.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]04 Nov 2015: B.8. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Business+News%3A+NRG+Chief+Alters+His+Green+Goals+--­+Money-losing+investments+in+renewable+energy+didn%27t+sit+well+with+investors&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2015-11­04&volume=&issue=&spage=B.8&au=Smith%2C+Rebecca&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Throughout its 26-year life, NRG Energy Inc. has made most of its money by running big electric plants that burn fossil fuels. 

Full Text 
Throughout its 26-year life, NRG Energy Inc. has made most of its money by running big electric plants that burn fossil fuels. But six years ago, the company's chief executive began a billion-dollar push into clean power: rooftop solar, wind farms and electric-car charging stations. 
And David Crane, the CEO, became increasingly outspoken about the need to go green. In an essay earlier this year, Mr. Crane warned his fellow electricity executives that by failing to embrace clean energy they "are losing the hearts and minds of the future generation of Americans." 
He still believes that, he said in an interview. But he is backing away from the renewable-energy businesses anyway -- to placate investors, he said. 
"There was a mismatch between what investors wanted us to do with our cash -- which was give it back -- and what we wanted to do, which was put it in growth businesses," Mr. Crane said. 
In the 15 months before he decided to split off the renewable-energy businesses, the company's shares lost about 50% of their value. The shares have dropped 25% since the new strategy was announced in mid-September. 
Current investors aren't upset about the plan to hive off the green businesses, said Jonathan Arnold, an equities analyst for Deutsche Bank Securities in New York. "They're just sorry it isn't being implemented more quickly." 
Jettisoning his green ambitions has been deflating, conceded 56-year-old Mr. Crane, who has run the Princeton, N.J., company since 2003. A Harvard-trained lawyer and former investment banker, he owns a Tesla Roadster, Nissan Leaf, Fisker Karma and BMW i8 sedan -- electric cars. 
Mr. Crane said he thought that since he tripled NRG's fleet of conventional power plants, investors would be patient with the emerging businesses. But institutional investors had little taste for the money-losing fledgling enterprises, he said, "while no clean-energy investor would buy the conventional generation business." 
His goals now, he said, are to find a winning format for the green businesses so they survive and to restore NRG's market value. 
"Investors have lost a lot of money," he said. "That's not the type of CEO I've tried to be." 
In addition to spinning off its clean-energy businesses next year, NRG intends to cap future investments in them at $125 million. Mr. Crane is hunting for people willing to invest in his clean-energy portfolio and he said he has completed a first round of discussions with potential investors. "It's still early days," he said, "but there are plenty of people interested." 
Over the last decade, NRG put about $10 billion into acquisitions, mostly big power plants that sell electricity in deregulated electricity markets. The company's generating assets are 90% conventional, meaning they use coal, natural gas or uranium, and 10% reliant on the sun or wind. 
Even so, said Mr. Crane, NRG was "held out for scorn" because it invested about $1 billion in the past decade in renewable-energy ventures and in carbon-capture technology for its coal plants. Reducing carbon emissions has become a major goal as the U.S. government tries to act against climate change. 
The company's reputation with investors may also have been bruised by a selloff in investment vehicles called "yieldcos," which it helped invent in 2012. Pioneered by NRG as well as renewable-power specialists including SunEdison Inc. and NextEra Energy Inc., yieldco ventures issued stock and used the proceeds to buy income-producing solar and wind projects from sponsors, freeing up capital for reinvestment. Stock in NRG Yield and other companies swooned this year amid doubts about their prospects for continued dividend growth. 
NRG has a long history of trying new things and then dropping them. "They've had a lot of ideas that haven't worked out very well," said Toby Shea, an energy analyst for Moody's Investors Service. 
As NRG returns to its roots as an independent power-generation firm, Mr. Crane sounds less than excited about a future that seems stuck on old tech. "There's only so far you can take a coal fleet that's 40 years old," he said, "and facing carbon restrictions." 
Credit: By Rebecca Smith 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Electric utilities;  
Alternative energy;  
Clean technology;  
Coal-fired power plants;  
Institutional investments  
Company / organization  Name: NRG Energy Inc  
NAICS: 221122  
Product name  BMW i8  
Classification  9190: United States  
8340: Electric, water & gas utilities  
3400: Investment analysis & personal finance  
Title  Business News: NRG Chief Alters His Green Goals --- Money-losing investments in renewable  
energy didn't sit well with investors  
Author  Smith, Rebecca  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.8  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Nov 4, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1729236012  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1729236012?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 201 of 376 


U.S. News: Battle Over EPA Rules Fires Up --- Lawsuits from dozens of states challenge the agency's limits on power-plant emissions 
Harder, Amy; Kendall, Brent.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]24 Oct 2015: A.3. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+Battle+Over+EPA+Rules+Fires+Up+--­+Lawsuits+from+dozens+of+states+challenge+the+agency%27s+limits+on+power-plant+emissions&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2015-10­24&volume=&issue=&spage=A.3&au=Harder%2C+Amy%3BKendall%2C+Brent&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
"The Clean Power Plan has strong scientific and legal foundations, provides states with broad flexibilities to design and implement plans, and is clearly within EPA's authority under the Clean Air Act," EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy said Friday. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- More than two dozen states filed lawsuits Friday against regulations aimed at cutting U.S. carbon emissions, kicking off what could be a yearslong legal and political battle over the Obama administration's main climate-change initiative. 
The states sued in a federal court here to challenge the rules, which seek to reduce carbon output from hundreds of power plants across the nation. Congressional Republicans also said Friday they would introduce measures in the coming week seeking to block the rules. 
The moves will put pressure on the administration from the two other branches of government and, if successful on either front, could cast uncertainty over the rules into the next presidential administration. 
The legal challengers are contesting the Environmental Protection Agency's authority on a range of grounds, some of them little explored by the courts. Twenty-four states filed one lawsuit as a coalition, and two other states -- Oklahoma and North Dakota -- filed separate suits. Industry associations and companies, including coal producer Murray Energy, also filed separate cases. The challenges came on the day that the EPA published the rule in the Federal Register. 
In the works since 2013 and issued in early August, the regulations require a 32% cut in power-plant carbon emissions by 2030 based on emissions levels of 2005. They are designed to force the utility industry, the largest source of U.S. carbon emissions that contribute to climate change, to shift toward cleaner-burning energy sources over the next several decades. 
The EPA is relying upon a seldom-used section of the Clean Air Act called 111(d) as its authority for the rules, which leaves an opening for legal scrutiny. Challengers are expected to focus on whether the agency exceeded its powers by pushing utilities to shift to cleaner forms of energy instead of focusing on pollution controls at fossil-fuel-fired power plants. 
Senior EPA officials say they are confident the rules, known as the Clean Power Plan, are legally sound. 
"The Clean Power Plan has strong scientific and legal foundations, provides states with broad flexibilities to design and implement plans, and is clearly within EPA's authority under the Clean Air Act," EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy said Friday. 
The coal industry is expected to be hit the hardest by the rules because coal emits the most carbon emissions of any power source. Coal-fired plants produced about one-third of the U.S.'s electricity in July, the latest month available, and a much larger share in some Midwestern and Appalachian states. 
Many of the states and politicians leading the legal and political challenges, including West Virginia and Kentucky, depend heavily on coal for their economies and electricity. West Virginia Attorney General Patrick Morrisey said the EPA rule was illegal and "one of the most aggressive executive-branch power grabs we've seen in a long time." 
Mr. Morrisey, a Republican, said the state challengers are asking the court to block the EPA rules temporarily while they mount their case. 
More than a dozen states, many of which are along the East and West Coasts and in New England, support the rule and are planning to file a motion to intervene on the side of the EPA, according to the New York attorney general's office. 
"These rules give states the flexibility to choose the best measures to cut pollution, while maintaining electrical reliability and economic growth," New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, a Democrat, said Friday. 
The lawsuits against the EPA were filed in the U.S. Court of Appeals for District of Columbia Circuit, a powerful federal court that regularly reviews the legality of government regulations. 
The side that ultimately loses at the D.C. Circuit is likely to seek intervention from the Supreme Court. Given the expected time frame for the litigation, it is unlikely the high court would rule on the EPA regulations before 2017, after President Barack Obama leaves office. 
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R., Ky.), meanwhile, said Friday he would lead a mostly Republican-backed effort to invoke a rarely used legislative tool that enables lawmakers to nullify recently completed rules with a simple majority vote of both the House and Senate. 
This maneuver, used successfully just once since it passed in 1996, allows Congress to nullify regulations within 60 days of their publication into the Federal Register with a simple majority of members. Both Republican-controlled chambers of Congress would likely have enough votes, but not enough to override an expected veto from Mr. Obama. 
Credit: By Amy Harder and Brent Kendall 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Attorneys general;  
Litigation;  
Carbon;  
Emission standards;  
Industrial plant emissions;  
Coal-fired power plants  
Location  United States--US  
People  McCarthy, Gina  
Company / organization  Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS: 924110  
Classification  9190: United States  
4330: Litigation  
Title  U.S. News: Battle Over EPA Rules Fires Up --- Lawsuits from dozens of states challenge the  
agency's limits on power-plant emissions  
Author  Harder, Amy; Kendall, Brent  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.3  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Oct 24, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1727359738  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1727359738?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  


document 202 of 376 


This Child Doesn't Need a Solar Panel 
Lomborg, Bjorn.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]22 Oct 2015: A.13. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=This+Child+Doesn%27t+Need+a+Solar+Panel&title=Wall+Street+Jo 10-22&volume=&issue=&spage=A.13&au=Lomborg%2C+Bjorn&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
According to the World Health Organization, three billion people suffer from the effects of indoor air pollution because they burn wood, coal or dung to cook. 

Full Text 
In the run-up to the 2015 U.N. Climate Change Conference in Paris from Nov. 30 to Dec. 11, rich countries and development organizations are scrambling to join the fashionable ranks of "climate aid" donors. This effectively means telling the world's worst-off people, suffering from tuberculosis, malaria or malnutrition, that what they really need isn't medicine, mosquito nets or micronutrients, but a solar panel. It is terrible news. 
On Oct. 9, World Bank President Jim Yong Kim pledged a one-third increase in the bank's direct climate-related financing, bringing the bank's annual total to an estimated $29 billion by 2020. In September, Chinese President Xi Jinping pledged to match President Obama's promised $3 billion in aid to the U.N.'s Green Climate Fund. Meanwhile, the U.K is diverting $8.9 billion from its overseas aid budget to climate-related aid over the next five years, and France is promising $5.6 billion annually by 2020, up from $3.4 billion today. The African Development Bank is planning to triple its climate-related investments to more than $5 billion a year by 2020, representing 40% of its total portfolio. 
All these pledges had their genesis in the chaos of the Copenhagen climate summit six years ago, when developed nations made a rash promise to spend $100 billion a year on "climate finance" for the world's poor by 2020. Rachel Kyte, World Bank vice president and special envoy for climate change, recently told the Guardian (U.K.) newspaper that the $100 billion figure "was picked out of the air at Copenhagen" in an attempt to rescue a last-minute deal. Yet achieving that arbitrary goal is now seen as fundamental to the success of the Paris summit. 
This is deeply troubling because aid is being diverted to climate-related matters at the expense of improved public health, education and economic development. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development has analyzed about 70% of total global development aid and found that about one in four of those dollars goes to climate-related aid. 
In a world in which malnourishment continues to claim at least 1.4 million children's lives each year, 1.2 billion people live in extreme poverty, and 2.6 billion lack clean drinking water and sanitation, this growing emphasis on climate aid is immoral. 
Not surprisingly, in an online U.N. survey of more than eight million people from around the globe, respondents from the world's poorest countries rank "action taken on climate change" dead last out of 16 categories when asked "What matters most to you?" Top priorities are "a good education," "better health care, "better job opportunities," "an honest and responsive government," and "affordable, nutritious food." 
According to a recent paper by Neha Raykar and Ramanan Laxminarayan of the Public Health Foundation of India, just $570 million a year -- or 0.57% of the $100 billion climate-finance goal -- spent on direct malaria-prevention policies like mosquito nets would reduce malaria deaths by 50% by 2025, saving an estimated 300,000 lives a year. 
Providing the world's most deprived countries with solar panels instead of better health care or education is inexcusable self-indulgence. Green energy sources may be good to keep on a single light or to charge a cellphone. But they are largely useless for tackling the main power challenges for the world's poor. 
According to the World Health Organization, three billion people suffer from the effects of indoor air pollution because they burn wood, coal or dung to cook. These people need access to affordable, reliable electricity today. Yet too often clean alternatives, because they aren't considered "renewable," aren't receiving the funding they deserve. 
A 2014 study by the Center for Global Development found that "more than 60 million additional people in poor nations could gain access to electricity if the Overseas Private Investment Corporation" -- the U.S. government's development finance institution -- "were allowed to invest in natural gas projects, not just renewables." 
Addressing global warming effectively will require long-term innovation that will make green energy affordable for everyone. Rich countries are in a rush to appear green and generous, and recipient countries are jostling to make sure they receive the funds. But the truth is that climate aid isn't where rich countries can help the most, and it isn't what the world's poorest want or need. 
Mr. Lomborg, director of the Copenhagen Consensus Center, is the author of "The Skeptical Environmentalist" (Cambridge Press, 2001) and "Cool It" (Knopf, 2007). 
(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: Solar Power Has a Role in Helping the Poor" -- WSJ Oct. 30, 2015) 
Credit: By Bjorn Lomborg 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Hunger;  
Poverty;  
Climate change;  
Humanitarian aid;  
Public health  
Company / organization  Name:  International Bank for Reconstruction & Development--World Bank  
NAICS:  928120;  
Name:  African Development Bank  
NAICS:  523110;  
Name:  United Nations--UN  
NAICS:  928120  
Title  This Child Doesn't Need a Solar Panel  
Author  Lomborg, Bjorn  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.13  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Oct 22, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1724849232  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1724849232?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 203 of 376 


U.S. News: Coal Hub Spurs City Brawl Rail-terminal project lauded by Oakland officials is opposed by environmental groups 
Lazo, Alejandro.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]19 Oct 2015: A.3. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+Coal+Hub+Spurs+City+Brawl+Rail­terminal+project+lauded+by+Oakland+officials+is+opposed+by+environmental+groups&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2015-10­19&volume=&issue=&spage=A.3&au=Lazo%2C+Alejandro&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
While he has sounded an alarm on climate change -- recently telling a Vatican symposium that 90% of the world's coal must remain unused to evade the perils of global warming -- as governor he has angered environmentalists by allowing the expansion of hydraulic fracturing in the state. 

Full Text 
OAKLAND, Calif. -- A proposal that could make this city a gateway for Utah coal to be shipped overseas has become a political flash point and put pressure on Gov. Jerry Brown, a former mayor known for his warnings on climate change, to come out against the project. 
The proposed deal would grant four coal-producing counties in Utah rail access to a major commodities shipping terminal under development on city land, adjacent to the Port of Oakland, in exchange for a $53 million investment. City officials hope the redevelopment plan, on an old Army base, would bring thousands of jobs to a city that still has pockets of poverty and violence even as the region's tech sector booms and housing costs rise. 
California ports in Stockton, Richmond and Long Beach export coal, but because of climate change and pollution concerns, such terminals have become highly contested on the West Coast. Environmentalists, who have defeated similar proposals in Oregon and Washington, have filed suit against the city, the project and developers. They are now calling on Mr. Brown, a Democrat, to speak out forcefully against coal being shipped through his former city. 
"We are hopeful that he won't let his hometown of Oakland become a thoroughfare for dirty coal," said Jessica Dervin-Ackerman, conservation manager with the local chapter of the Sierra Club. 
Mr. Brown declined to comment on the Oakland terminal. While he has sounded an alarm on climate change -- recently telling a Vatican symposium that 90% of the world's coal must remain unused to evade the perils of global warming -- as governor he has angered environmentalists by allowing the expansion of hydraulic fracturing in the state. 
The master developer of the project is Phillip Tagami, a local businessman with close ties to Mr. Brown, who is credited with sparking a revitalization of the city's downtown when he served as mayor from 1999 to 2007. Mr. Brown is an investor with Mr. Tagami in an Oakland office building, according to an economic disclosure form filed by the governor. During Mr. Brown's gubernatorial administration, Mr. Tagami served as chairman of the state's Lottery Commission and as a member of its Medical Board; he left the administration in 2013. 
The terminal, which would sit at the end of an existing track network, would be managed by Terminal Logistics Solutions, a company that is looking to partner with the Utah counties to export commodities including coal. "It is important to realize that this is an opportunity for Oakland," Jerry Bridges, the company's chief executive, told City Council members last month. 
Mr. Tagami said he has spoken with Mr. Brown about the project, assuring him the terminal was designed to accept a wide variety of goods and has passed all necessary environmental reviews. The project, dubbed Oakland Global, is expected to bring in as much as $2.9 million in annual property taxes for the city, schools and other local governments, and has already created more than 2,300 jobs, he said. 
"This is a local issue, and I think he respects it as that," Mr. Tagami said. 
Utah backers say the state's coal burns more efficiently and has a lower sulfur content than coal from elsewhere, though experts say it doesn't necessarily emit less carbon dioxide, the main greenhouse gas produced by industry. 
The state has sought new markets for its coal as energy companies and utilities in the U.S. have moved toward natural-gas plants and renewable forms of energy due to stricter federal pollution rules. While coal mining represents a fraction of Utah's economy, it has long been a source of jobs for counties in the central and southeastern part of the state. Statewide production of coal last year was near a 30-year low amid lower demand from Nevada and California. The Oakland terminal would give the Utah counties four million to five million tons of annual shipping capacity and access to overseas markets including Asia, where coal is in greater demand than in the U.S. 
"This is what I call ultraclean coal, and it has a place in the world markets," said Jae Potter, a commissioner in Utah's Carbon County. "It has a place in developing countries." 
But the idea of coal being shipped through Oakland has roiled politics in the city of about 414,000. Among those concerned is Mayor Libby Schaaf, a former aide to Mr. Brown. "We will not have coal shipped through our city," Ms. Schaaf wrote to Mr. Tagami in an email that was made public. 
Oakland's City Council, which held a contentious hearing on the issue last month, is considering an ordinance to ban coal at the terminal. The Sierra Club argues coal dust has been linked to decreased lung capacity, childhood bronchitis, asthma, pneumonia, emphysema and heart disease. Mr. Bridges, of Terminal Logistics, told council members that any coal shipped through the city would be covered, eliminating the risk of coal dust. 
Mr. Tagami said no restrictions should be imposed on which commodities the terminal can export and that doing so could harm the project's success. 
Credit: By Alejandro Lazo 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Climate change;  
Environmentalists;  
Coal;  
Exports;  
Transportation terminals  
Location  Utah; Oakland California  
People  Brown, Edmund G Jr (Jerry); Tagami, Phil  
Classification  8350: Transportation & travel industry  
9190: United States  
1540: Pollution control  
Title  U.S. News: Coal Hub Spurs City Brawl Rail-terminal project lauded by Oakland officials is  
opposed by environmental groups  
Author  Lazo, Alejandro  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.3  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Oct 19, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1722832340  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1722832340?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 204 of 376 


Climate Change at the Bank of England 
White, Bill.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]16 Oct 2015: A.11. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Climate+Change+at+the+Bank+of+England&title=Wall+Street+Jour 10-16&volume=&issue=&spage=A.11&au=White%2C+Bill&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
[...]Mr. Carney argues that his disaster scenario can be avoided by requiring large corporations to file "reliable and clear" disclosures concerning their prospects in a carbon-restricted world. Since lengthy corporate filings already warn of the risks posed by new regulations, competition, technological change and commodity pricing, Mr. Carney's proposal seems like a solution looking for a problem. 

Full Text 
The risks of climate change -- increasingly severe storms, crop failures and flooding of coastal cities -- need no embellishment. Nonetheless, Mark Carney, governor of the Bank of England and chairman of the global Financial Stability Board, recently warned that climate change poses another danger: a financial collapse triggered by a sharp decline in the value of investment in fossil fuels. 
In anticipation of the 2015 U.N. Climate Change Conference in Paris from Nov. 30 to Dec. 11, Mr. Carney noted the likelihood of additional restrictions on carbon emissions in a Sept. 29 speech at Lloyd's of London. That observation rests on solid ground, since for years major oil companies themselves -- such as Exxon, Shell and BP -- have released annual planning forecasts that assume higher regulatory costs on carbon emissions. 
Then Mr. Carney went out on a limb. By assuming that investors would somehow be blindsided by these regulatory changes, he claimed that a future meltdown in the value of energy investments could destabilize global finance. This he poetically calls the "tragedy of the horizon." 
In reality, current and potential restrictions on carbon emissions have already slashed the value of coal reserves and accelerated investment in cleaner substitutes, notably natural gas and renewables. Even junior analysts know that the stock market ascribes little value to oil production that is decades out and requires vast new capital investment. The recent selloff in oil-related securities shows how quickly markets react to even a near-term oversupply of oil production. 
Fuel efficiency may indeed reduce oil demand and the related value of long-lived, government-owned subsurface resources, such as those in the Persian Gulf. That is hardly a threat to the world economy. Nations have sought to reduce imports to enhance their economic security since the rise in oil prices and economic malaise in the 1970s. 
If Mr. Carney actually worries that a bubble in the value of energy investment poses a global economic threat, then would he rest easier if all oil and gas companies sharply curtailed their new investment? If they did so, the result would be similar to a global cartel that suppressed oil supply to raise oil prices and free cash flow. 
Instead, Mr. Carney argues that his disaster scenario can be avoided by requiring large corporations to file "reliable and clear" disclosures concerning their prospects in a carbon-restricted world. Since lengthy corporate filings already warn of the risks posed by new regulations, competition, technological change and commodity pricing, Mr. Carney's proposal seems like a solution looking for a problem. 
In a world obsessed with the short term, no one should fault public officials for directing attention to more-distant horizons. Central bankers concerned with climate change can point to risks grounded in empirical science. But by adopting the pretense of saving energy investors from themselves, a central bank may compromise its credibility and political independence -- qualities crucial to its effectiveness. 
Mr. White, the author of "America's Fiscal Constitution: Its Triumph and Collapse" (PublicAffairs, 2014), is a senior adviser to Lazard Ltd. and a former deputy U.S. energy secretary and mayor of Houston. 
Credit: By Bill White 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Emissions control; 
Petroleum industry; 

Petroleum production; 
Natural gas utilities; 
Climate change; 
Investment banking 


People 	Carney, Mark 
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Financial Stability Board 813910;  
Name: NAICS:  Bank of England 521110  

Classification  8130: Investment services  
9175: Western Europe  
1540: Pollution control  
Title  Climate Change at the Bank of England  
Author  White, Bill  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.11  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Oct 16, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1722348312  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1722348312?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 205 of 376 


Who Wants To Buy a Coal Mine? 
Miller, John W; Jarzemsky, Matt.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]14 Oct 2015: C.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Who+Wants+To+Buy+a+Coal+Mine%3F&title=Wall+Street+Journal&iss 10-14&volume=&issue=&spage=C.1&au=Miller%2C+John+W%3BJarzemsky%2C+Matt&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Coal burned by power plants faces competition from cheap and relatively clean natural gas, and a slowdown in demand from China has driven the price of coal used in steelmaking to an 11-year low. In an email, Mr. Ross said he's not inclined to invest in coal assets because of Environmental Protection Agency regulations, the decline of Appalachian reserves and inexpensive natural gas. 

Full Text 
Tom Clarke received a cold reception when he first approached Patriot Coal Corp. earlier this year. 
The company and its advisers were trying to sell some of its Appalachian mines after filing for bankruptcy protection. At first they doubted Mr. Clarke's conservation group, whose mission is "to conserve Virginia's natural resources to address climate change," would have the money and know-how the deal required, according to people familiar with the matter. 
But Mr. Clarke managed to get an audience with the embattled miner. In a conference room at a private airport in Charleston, W.Va., he made his pitch: His Virginia Conservation Legacy Fund Inc. would take control of mining operations and cleanup projects, aiming to sell coal bundled with carbon credits linking it to forestry projects. Patriot, in exchange, would be freed from about $400 million in liabilities tied to the mines but wouldn't receive a significant cash payment. 
Patriot accepted the offer. 
Mr. Clarke's deal with Patriot illustrates the depth of the coal industry's slump. Major U.S. producers are scaling back, trying to shed mines and laying off employees. But the financial investors and large industry buyers that figured prominently in the last coal shakeout as acquirers are largely sitting out this round. 
"There's just a vacuum of strategic buyers, especially at a larger scale," said Fred Vescio, a managing director at investment bank Houlihan Lokey. 
Three major U.S. coal companies -- Patriot Coal, Alpha Natural Resources Inc. and Walter Energy Inc. -- filed for bankruptcy protection this year. Patriot is selling most of its assets to Blackhawk Mining LLC, a Kentucky-based regional miner founded five years ago by coal entrepreneur Mitch Potter. Alpha Natural has said it won't immediately sell mines as part of its restructuring. Walter Energy is evaluating options after last month's breakdown of its initial restructuring plan, which would have given creditors ownership of a slimmed-down version of the company. 
"I don't think we could have even begun to think about doing this [deal] five years ago," Mr. Clarke, a father of eight who also runs a Virginia-based health system, said in an interview. Black Diamond Capital Management LLC has agreed to commit $25 million in debt financing for a 30% stake in a mine the conservation fund is acquiring, among other compensation, according to people familiar with the matter. A judge approved the arrangement as part of Patriot's bankruptcy-exit plan last week. 
In past coal-industry routs, buyers like Mr. Clarke would likely have been outbid by investors such as Wilbur Ross, the billionaire who revels in reviving down-and-out industries. Mr. Ross and other investors bought assets from bankrupt Horizon Natural Resources to form International Coal Group Inc. in 2004. In 2011, ICG sold to Arch Coal Group Inc. for $3.4 billion. 
This time around, those investors are put off by the U.S. coal industry's bleak long-term outlook. Coal burned by power plants faces competition from cheap and relatively clean natural gas, and a slowdown in demand from China has driven the price of coal used in steelmaking to an 11-year low. 
In an email, Mr. Ross said he's not inclined to invest in coal assets because of Environmental Protection Agency regulations, the decline of Appalachian reserves and inexpensive natural gas. Mr. Ross isn't the only big player on the sidelines. Billionaire coal investor Chris Cline hasn't bought any new mines this decade. Nor has former Xstrata PLC chief Mick Davis, who now runs a fund called X2 Resources. Other cash-rich mining funds, such as Aaron Regent's Magris Resources Inc., are investing in mines. But coal, said Mr. Regent, "is not at the top of our list." Mr. Davis declined to comment, and Mr. Cline couldn't be reached for comment. 
A big exception is U.S. coal king Robert Murray. In April, his Murray Energy Corp. bought a significant stake in Mr. Cline's Foresight Energy LP, which operates some of the most productive mines in the U.S. in the Illinois basin. Industry experts think Mr. Murray is done shopping for the time being. A company spokesman said the miner is still interested in buying the "best possible" coal assets in a few target areas. 
Other major U.S. producers could yet make an appearance. Alliance Resource Partners LP, Consol Energy Inc. and Westmoreland Coal Co. have less debt than some rivals and didn't indulge in expensive acquisitions over the past decade. 
"We're always interested in buying properties that conform to our business model" of buying mines adjacent to power plants, said Westmoreland Chief Executive Keith Alessi. Consol and Alliance didn't respond to requests for comment. 
For now, analysts say, deal-making in the U.S. coal sector features mainly smaller players picking off modest mining operations. 
Take 31-year-old Ian Ganzer. A decade ago, the Emory University baseball player was headed for a career on Wall Street, but a detour to pitch in the summer leagues led him to work on developing a coal mine part-owned by his doctor father. 
Now, Mr. Ganzer is teaming up with investors including South Carolina-based Royal Energy Resources to buy, for $20 million, two coal mines that straddle the Ohio-West Virginia border. The mining complex, which cost around $220 million to build, holds 185 million tons of thermal coal and, at peak production in 2009, generated 250,000 tons a month, while employing 200 miners. 
Mr. Ganzer looked at two dozen potential mine acquisitions in Appalachia before settling on the property, which has a new coal-processing plant, a barge-loading facility and is near two coal-fired power plants. Mr. Cline offered to sell it because of geological hurdles, including sandstone embedded in the coal. 
Mr. Ganzer's bet is that with equipment, labor and energy all less costly now, coal prices only have to recover a little for his mines to turn a profit. Even as the U.S. turns away from coal, it remains the source of over 30% of the nation's electricity. And developments, such as a Republican winning the White House and repealing environmental rules, could make coal a desirable commodity once again. 
"I hope this will be a long and prosperous journey or a short and painful one," said Mr. Ganzer, who owns a piece of the company and was recently named its chief operating officer. "But I wouldn't be doing this if I didn't think that I would be successful." 
Credit: By John W. Miller and Matt Jarzemsky 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Bankruptcy; 

Natural resources; 

Coal industry; 

Acquisitions & mergers; 

Coal mining 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Clarke, Tom 
Company / organization 	Name: Black Diamond Capital Management 

NAICS: 522310; 

Name: Blackhawk Mining LLC NAICS: 212111; 
Name: Walter Energy Inc NAICS: 213113; 
Name: Alpha Natural Resources Inc NAICS: 212112; 
Name: Patriot Coal NAICS: 212111 
Classification 	9190: United States 

8500: Extractive industries 

2330: Acquisitions & mergers 


Title 	Who Wants To Buy a Coal Mine? 
Author 	Miller, John W; Jarzemsky, Matt 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	C.1 
Publication year 	2015 
Publication date 	Oct 14, 2015 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1721853816  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1721853816?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 206 of 376 


City News: College Students Protest Prison Investments --- Marches against police, criminal-justice system spur campus activists; requests create tension 
Vilensky, Mike.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]03 Oct 2015: A.17. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=City+News%3A+College+Students+Protest+Prison+Investments+-­-+Marches+against+police%2C+criminal-justice+system+spur+campus+activists%3B+requests+create+tension&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2015-10­03&volume=&issue=&spage=A.17&au=Vilensky%2C+Mike&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
A spokeswoman for Columbia had no comment on the activist group's tactics but said the university's decision to divest itself of the private-prison holdings "reflected Columbia's tradition of student activism on important issues of the day and was informed by the discussion among many interested parties within the university community." 

Full Text 
Columbia University senior Asha Rosa approached a campus administrator last year and said she needed a list of all the school's investments for her urban-studies thesis, a tale 
she invented because she didn't believe the school would otherwise oblige. 
Ms. Rosa and other activists then published some of the information, showing Columbia had more than $7 million of its endowment in prison-related holdings. In June, the 
school agreed to divest from those companies. 

"It's a funny story now," she said. "But I think there should have been more access to the information. You can't organize around divestment without knowing what the 

university investments are." 
The Columbia students are among activists on college campuses who have called on campus-governing boards to move university investments out of private-prison companies 
such as the Corrections Corp. of America. 

The campaigns come amid nationwide protests against police tactics and the criminal-justice system. Students say the private-prison companies have contributed to and 

profited from incarcerating too many people and unfairly target racial minorities and low-income people. 
A spokesman for Corrections Corp. said: "These campaigns are yet another unfortunate example of the lack of seriousness with which political activists approach the very real 
and practical challenges our nation faces." 

A spokeswoman for Columbia had no comment on the activist group's tactics but said the university's decision to divest itself of the private-prison holdings "reflected Columbia's tradition of student activism on important issues of the day and was informed by the discussion among many interested parties within the university community." 
In recent years, as part of a fight against climate change, activists have called on campus-governing boards to move investments out of oil, gas, and coal companies. 
The calls from students for more information about school investments have caused a natural tension, analysts said, because private institutions often keep their investment 
strategies quiet to maintain a competitive edge. 

Many schools pool money into diversified portfolios overseen by external money managers, and administrators aren't often inclined to reveal the details. 

Fossil-fuel companies and security companies such as Corrections Corp. "are relatively big companies, so you can't really avoid them easily if you have billions of dollars in your 
portfolio," said Roger Ibbotson, a Yale University finance professor. "They're likely to be in there." 
Public schools are subject to Freedom of Information Law requests. 
Private schools can be responsive to some FOIL disclosures but releasing holdings information is generally at the discretion of trustees and administrations. 
At NYU, where student activists have been unsuccessful in getting the university to divest from fossil fuel companies, efforts have turned to private-prison divestment over the 

past year. 
"When NYU divest started we had no idea what the school was investing in," said Davis Saltonstall, an NYU student who was part of the student divestment campaign. 
John Beckman, a spokesman for the university, said the school doesn't typically disclose such information. "Presumably, the reason for disclosing the specifics of all our holdings 

. . . would be to propose all sorts of prohibitions on or changes to university investments, which we think is an unwise approach to fulfilling the endowment's purpose of serving 
the university." 
In their defense in the face of the divestment movement, fossil-fuel companies have said they are funding alternative-energy sources. 

At Wesleyan University, in Connecticut, students called on trustees to divest from private-prison companies, fossil-fuel companies, and companies supporting Israel. 
A 24-hour sit-in at the school president's office last spring ended when the president, Michael Roth, met with students and said he agreed the school shouldn't be invested in 
private-prison companies, students said. 

Just hours later, they said, Mr. Roth emailed them to say he had checked, and Wesleyan wasn't invested in private-prison companies in the first place. 

Student-activist Maya McDonnell said her group was struck by how quickly Mr. Roth had been able to find out and report back on the school's investments. 
"Transparency is a lot more possible than it has been presented to us," she said. "We're starting to realize we could hold the administration to a higher bar." Credit: By Mike Vilensky 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  College students; Schools; College campuses; Prisons; Investments; Demonstrations & protests; Criminal justice  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Columbia University 611310;  
Name: NAICS:  Corrections Corp of America 561210  
Classification  9190: United States 8306: Schools and educational services  
Title  City News: College Students Protest Prison Investments --- Marches against police, criminal-justice system spur campus activists; requests create tension  
Author  Vilensky, Mike  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.17  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Oct 3, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1718566705  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1718566705?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  

Last updated 2017-11-22 
Database US Newsstream 
document 207 of 376 


The Hole in Tapper's Ozone Tale 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]03 Oct 2015: A.12. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=The+Hole+in+Tapper%27s+Ozone+Tale&title=Wall+Street+Journal& 10-03&volume=&issue=&spage=A.12&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Changing the refrigerant in home appliances is hardly the same as phasing out fossil fuels, a foundation for global economic growth, especially in developing countries. 

Full Text 
The recent Republican presidential debate is largely forgotten, but before the next one we thought at least one question is worth correcting: Moderator Jake Tapper's effort to conscript Ronald Reagan into the ranks of climate-change activists. 
Reagan "faced a similar situation to the one that we're facing now," the CNN anchor said to Senator Marco Rubio, referring to concerns in the 1980s about a hole that formed each year in the atmosphere's ozone layer. Mr. Tapper invoked former Secretary of State George Shultz, who "says Ronald Reagan urged skeptics in industry to come up with a plan. He said, do it as an insurance policy in case the scientists are right. The scientists were right." The point of Mr. Tapper's tale: Why not "approach climate change the Reagan way?" 
Messrs. Tapper and Shultz are reminiscing about the Montreal Protocol, a 1987 international treaty that phased out chlorofluorocarbons, then common refrigerants in freezers, air conditioners and other appliances. The worry was that the stuff eroded the ozone layer. Montreal is celebrated as the paragon of cooperative climate action, largely because the dire predictions -- skin-cancer epidemics, for instance -- didn't materialize. Scientists say the ozone hole has stopped growing, though it still isn't clear that the treaty is the reason. 
In any case, Montreal is no blueprint for climate change, for several reasons. One is scale: Changing the refrigerant in home appliances is hardly the same as phasing out fossil fuels, a foundation for global economic growth, especially in developing countries. Even the Montreal Protocol allowed developing countries more time to weed out chemicals; imagine how long India would need to dump coal. 
Then there are the alternatives. In the 1980s the DuPont company rolled out chemicals that could replace chlorofluorocarbons at a decent price. There isn't a similar elixir for fossil fuels. Renewable energy sources -- wind, solar, biomass -- generate 13% of U.S. electricity, says the Energy Information Administration, and half of that comes from hydropower. Solar energy cranks out less than 1%, even with enormous government subsidies. It isn't always sunny and breezy, one reason no one suggests renewables could replace fossil fuels any time soon. 
The climate brigade retorts that the U.S. could make carbon more expensive by taxing it or make renewable energy cheaper with even more subsidies. Neither option would have passed muster with the Gipper. Our friend Secretary Shultz has argued for a carbon tax in these pages, and we might agree if it replaced another major tax. But the likelihood is we'd end up with one more tax to feed government spending and hurt economic growth. 
Federal and state governments already prop up renewables with billions in tax credits, guaranteed loans and mandates. The Government Accountability Office reported in 2012 that there are hundreds of federal initiatives across some 20 agencies for solar alone, and don't forget solar net-metering for local consumers. 
Mr. Tapper is not the first to spin what happened in Montreal, and no question we'll hear the narrative again. But Republicans should be prepared to explain how this misapplies history. 
(See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: Clearing the Air About Reagan and Ozone" -- WSJ Oct. 9. 2015) 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Chlorofluorocarbons; 
Fossil fuels; 
Alternative energy sources; 

Subsidies; 
Developing countries--LDCs; 
Climate change; 
Economic growth; 

Debates; 
Presidential elections; 
Editorials -- Climate change 


Location 	United States--US 
People  Rubio, Marco; Tapper, Jake; Reagan, Ronald Wilson  
Title  The Hole in Tapper's Ozone Tale  
Author  Anonymous  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.12  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Oct 3, 2015  
column  REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  1718566628  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1718566628?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 208 of 376 


Business News: BHP Runs Climate Test 
Hoyle, Rhiannon.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]30 Sep 2015: B.2. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Business+News%3A+BHP+Runs+Climate+Test&title=Wall+Street+Jour 09-30&volume=&issue=&spage=B.2&au=Hoyle%2C+Rhiannon&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Revealing projections for the first time as December's Paris Climate Conference nears, BHP Chief Commercial Officer Dean Dalla Valle assured investors in London Tuesday that the company has "stress-tested" its global resources business, which includes coal mines and oil fields. 

Full Text 
SYDNEY -- BHP Billiton, the world's biggest mining company, says a global agreement on climate-change action would slow but not stop demand growth for most of the commodities it produces. 
Revealing projections for the first time as December's Paris Climate Conference nears, BHP Chief Commercial Officer Dean Dalla Valle assured investors in London Tuesday that the company has "stress-tested" its global resources business, which includes coal mines and oil fields. 
The test: Could BHP withstand policy shifts that would follow an agreement limiting carbon emissions to cap global average temperatures at no more than 2 degrees Celsius 
(3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) above preindustrial levels? 
The conclusion, according to the BHP report: "Even in an orderly or rapid shift to a 2-degree world, we forecast growth in long-term demand for most of our commodities." 
Credit: By Rhiannon Hoyle 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Climate change; 
Mining industry 


Company / organization 	Name: BHP Billiton 

NAICS: 211111, 212231, 212234 


Title 	Business News: BHP Runs Climate Test 
Author 	Hoyle, Rhiannon 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	B.2 
Publication year 	2015 
Publication date 	Sep 30, 2015 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1717394076  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1717394076?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 209 of 376 


Business News: BHP Offers Grim Outlook for Coal --- Multiyear downturn worsens as miners continue to produce too much supply 
Hoyle, Rhiannon.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]21 Sep 2015: B.7. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Business+News%3A+BHP+Offers+Grim+Outlook+for+Coal+--­+Multiyear+downturn+worsens+as+miners+continue+to+produce+too+much+supply&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2015-09­21&volume=&issue=&spage=B.7&au=Hoyle%2C+Rhiannon&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
In China, public anger over air pollution is increasing pressure on utilities running the country's coal-burning power plants to shift to nuclear power and natural gas. 

Full Text 
SYDNEY -- The head of BHP Billiton Ltd.'s coal business painted a bleak picture for the coal-mining sector, saying depressed prices will likely continue to plague the industry for 
some time to come. 
A multiyear downturn in the energy commodity, used to generate electricity and make steel, is worsening as mining companies continue to produce too much supply and China's 
economy slows, said the executive, Mike Henry. China's restrictions on certain types of highly polluting coal, introduced earlier this year as part of an accelerating campaign to 
clean up its air, have added to a significant glut in the global market for the fuel, Mr. Henry said Friday. 

"There are no signs of things getting better in the immediate term," he said during a speech in Brisbane, Australia, according to prepared remarks. 

Coal prices have been tumbling since 2011 as cooling demand for the fuel was met by rising supplies from new mines planned when the market was booming. Price declines 
have deepened this year. 
The value of metallurgical coal, which is burned for steelmaking, is down as much as 30% from the start of 2015, while thermal coal, used in power generation, is as much as 

15% lower. 

"Poor returns, and little indication of better times on the immediate horizon, make coal a pretty challenging business at the present time," Mr. Henry said. "In BHP Billiton's coal 
business, we made a 3% return on capital in our Australian assets last year and that's at the good end of the industry spectrum," he said. 
BHP is the world's largest exporter of metallurgical coal, digging up vast quantities of the resource in coal-rich eastern Australia in partnership with Mitsubishi Corp. It also 

produces thermal coal. 

The company, like other coal miners, has been slashing costs and striving to make its mines more efficient in a bid to safeguard profit. BHP has cut its costs by half over the 
past three years. 
The slowdown in China, the world's largest producer and consumer of coal, has cast doubt over coal's future. 
Last week, the U.S. Energy Information Administration said China's past coal consumption had been underestimated, revising higher its supply-and-demand data for the first 13 

years of this century. However, its analysis also found the world's No. 2 economy used as much as 2% less coal last year. 
Still, Mr. Henry fought criticism the coal industry is in terminal decline. 
"I am optimistic that the market will improve" eventually, he said. 
There is no practical substitute for metallurgical coal in steelmaking, he said, which means prospects for that type of fuel should improve as an oversupply of steel is run down 

and emerging economies demand more of the material to build skyscrapers and cars. 

The outlook for thermal coal is a little less clear. Environmentalists have campaigned for banks to withdraw financing from new projects as climate-change policy has moved into 
the global spotlight, aided by President Barack Obama's desire to address the issue as part of his legacy. 
In China, public anger over air pollution is increasing pressure on utilities running the country's coal-burning power plants to shift to nuclear power and natural gas. 
Mr. Henry said BHP has several internal projections worked out for long-run thermal-coal demand based on a variety of influences, including emerging climate-change policies. 

The most likely outcome is that demand is flat, or only increases or decreases slightly, from now to 2030, rather than any wild swing one way or the other, he said. 
"In all scenarios," though, Mr. Henry said, "thermal-coal demand remains a significant part of the global energy mix for decades to come." 
Credit: By Rhiannon Hoyle 

(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Mining industry;  
Coal industry;  
Commodity prices;  
Strategic planning  
Location  China  
Company / organization  Name: BHP Billiton  
NAICS: 211111, 212231, 212234  
Classification  8510: Petroleum industry  
9180: International  
Title  Business News: BHP Offers Grim Outlook for Coal --- Multiyear downturn worsens as miners  
continue to produce too much supply  
Author  Hoyle, Rhiannon  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.7  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Sep 21, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1713902416  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1713902416?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 210 of 376 


World News: Obama, Xi Advance Climate Deal --- Ahead of leadership summit, U.S. and China plan parallel emission reductions 
Mauldin, William; Colleen McCain Nelson.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]16 Sep 2015: A.10. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=World+News%3A+Obama%2C+Xi+Advance+Climate+Deal+--­+Ahead+of+leadership+summit%2C+U.S.+and+China+plan+parallel+emission+reductions&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2015-09­16&volume=&issue=&spage=A.10&au=Mauldin%2C+William%3BColleen+McCain+Nelson&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
For the world's highly developed economies, a top goal of the agreement expected in Paris in December is signing up fast-growing emerging markets, which have avoided the burden of reducing emissions in previous agreements organized by the United Nations. 

Full Text 
Next week, President Barack Obama and Chinese President Xi Jinping will add to earlier pledges to cut greenhouse-gas emissions with specific guidance on what the two countries will do at home to keep climate change at bay, officials said. 
The United States and China announced Tuesday that cities, states and provinces in both countries would commit to taking parallel steps to address climate change. 
The participating Chinese cities and provinces, which represent about 25% of total urban emissions in that country, will offer plans to have their emissions peak sooner than the 
national target of 2030. 

Beijing and Guangzhou, two of China's largest cities, will aim for their peak emissions to come as early as 2020. 
Climate officials and leaders from both countries are meeting in Los Angeles this week to lay out the steps the regions will take and to set the groundwork for next week's 
summit between the two presidents. 

U.S. officials said the Obama-Xi summit is part of an effort by the two biggest polluters -- which account for more than a third of global greenhouse-gas emissions -- to 
demonstrate progress on meeting the terms of a bilateral accord reached in November. 
White House press secretary Josh Earnest said Tuesday that Mr. Obama would use next week's meeting to discuss additional opportunities for U.S.-China cooperation on cutting 
carbon pollution. 

The U.S. commitments are coming from states such as California and Connecticut and an array of cities including Atlanta, Boston, Los Angeles, Washington, Seattle, and 

Houston. 
The U.S. pledged last year to reduce carbon-dioxide emissions by between 26% and 28% by 2025, compared with 2005 levels, while China said it would make sure its 
emissions peak by 2030 or earlier. 

To achieve its goal, the Obama administration this summer finalized new rules for coal power plants. 

Some prominent Republicans in Congress say the moves will damage the U.S. economy and are moving to block the rules in court; they are seeking to undermine Mr. Obama's 
authority to conclude a binding agreement among nearly 200 nations, which is meant to come to a head in Paris later this year. 
"Last year was a year for setting goals and targets," said Brian Deese, a senior White House adviser who specializes in climate issues. "This year needs to be a year of 

implementation." 

The Chinese cities' commitment to early peaking highlights the country's efforts to achieve its national target as early as possible, Mr. Deese said, and the joint U.S.-China 
actions show the seriousness of the effort to meet the terms of the countries' agreement. 
The cities, states and provinces that sign the declaration and pledge to address climate change also will track and report their emissions on a regular basis. Such commitments 

create a measure of accountability, Mr. Deese said. 

For the world's highly developed economies, a top goal of the agreement expected in Paris in December is signing up fast-growing emerging markets, which have avoided the 
burden of reducing emissions in previous agreements organized by the United Nations. 
The U.S.-China climate discussions will spill into a range of wider discussions among countries gathering later this month at the U.N. 
China's move last year reassured environmentalists about Beijing's commitment, but India and other emerging markets haven't submitted their own proposals for cutting 

emissions through the Paris accord. 

Republicans in Congress say China got off easy by agreeing to start reducing emissions only in 2030. A slowing Chinese economy and rebalancing away from heavy 
manufacturing could allow China to achieve the goal much earlier without significant costs, according to some climate experts. 
A survey this summer by the China Carbon Forum, an independent organization that promotes efforts to curb climate change in China, found that 82% of industry experts say 

China will reach its emissions peak before 2030, with 39% saying before 2025 and 16% before 2020. 
Mr. Earnest, the White House press secretary, said the pledges announced Tuesday signaled that China's emissions could peak before 2030. 
Environmentalists have cheered China's commitment to boosting green energy, a shared goal U.S. officials say will likely come up during Mr. Xi's visit. 
The two leaders may also tackle some of the thorny unresolved issues of the international climate talks, including poorer countries' insistence that developed economies help finance their transitions at a cost of around $100 billion a year for all countries combined. 
"Anything that signaled a preparedness to find some common ground on the outstanding issues would be welcomed," said Jo Tyndall, New Zealand's climate-change ambassador, in Washington last week. 
Credit: By William Mauldin and Colleen McCain Nelson 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Agreements; 

Environmental protection; 
Emissions control; 
Climate change 


Location 	United States--US; China 
People 	Obama, Barack; Xi Jinping 
Classification 	1540: Pollution control 

9180: International 


Title 	World News: Obama, Xi Advance Climate Deal --- Ahead of leadership summit, U.S. and China 
plan parallel emission reductions 

Author 	Mauldin, William; Colleen McCain Nelson 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.10 
Publication year 	2015 
Publication date 	Sep 16, 2015 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 	00999660 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	News 
ProQuest document ID 	1712452918 
Document URL 	https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1712452918?accountid=14902 
Copyright 	(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further 
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Last updated 2017-11-22 
Database US Newsstream 
document 211 of 376 


Unleashing Innovation: Energy (A Special Report) --- Obama's Climate Agenda: Test Your Smarts: The president has been active on the environmental front; How much do you really know about what he's doing? 
Harder, Amy.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]14 Sep 2015: R.2. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Unleashing+Innovation%3A+Energy+%28A+Special+Report%29+­
+Obama%27s+Climate+Agenda%3A+Test+Your+Smarts%3A+The+president+has+been+active+on+the+environmental+front%3B+How+much+do+you+really+know+about+w 09-14&volume=&issue=&spage=R.2&au=Harder%2C+Amy&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Coal-fired power plants emit the most pollution, including carbon emissions, of any electricity source, according to the EPA. Because of a one-two punch of tough environmental rules and cheap, cleaner-burning natural gas, coal-fired electricity's share of total power production has dropped by what percentage since 2005? a. 79% b. 51% c. 22% d. 8% Answer: C. In 2005, coal accounted for nearly 50% of electricity in the U.S., and in 2015 that dropped to less than 40%. 

Full Text 
Combating climate change could turn out to be one of the biggest legacies of Barack Obama's presidency. Last month, the Environmental Protection Agency completed a suite of rules cutting carbon emissions from U.S. power plants, with the greatest impact to be borne by hundreds of coal-fired facilities. 
Politicians from states dependent on fossil fuels have promised to fight the new rules, which represent the centerpiece of Mr. Obama's climate agenda. But the EPA's power-plant regulations aren't the only arrows in the president's quiver. 
How much do you really know about what the Obama administration has been up to on the climate front since 2009? Take this quiz to find out. 
1. Under Mr. Obama's presidency, the EPA has taken several steps to reduce emissions that most scientists blame for global warming. Which one of the following sectors of the 
U.S.
 economy is the EPA not regulating for greenhouse gas emissions? 

a.
 Power plants 

b.
 Refineries 

c.
 Oil and natural-gas drilling operations 

d.
 Cars 

e.
 Trucks 


Answer: B. Environmental groups have sued the EPA to regulate carbon emissions from both power plants and oil and natural-gas refineries, but so far, during the Obama administration, the agency has not yet acted to regulate refineries. Environmentalists are likely to sue again for EPA regulation of refineries, but probably not before Mr. Obama's second term ends in early 2017. 
2. Mr. Obama laid out his second-term climate agenda in a 2013 speech at Georgetown University. He devoted most of his speech to broad policy initiatives, such as his administration's plans to regulate carbon emissions from power plants and address emissions of methane -- a potent greenhouse gas -- from oil and natural-gas drilling. Which of the following did Mr. Obama mention for its impact on climate change? 
a.
 Arctic oil drilling 

b.
 BP oil spill 

c.
 Keystone XL pipeline 

d.
 Hydraulic fracturing 


Answer C. "Allowing the Keystone pipeline to be built requires a finding that doing so would be in our nation's interest," Mr. Obama said. "Our national interest will be served only if this project doesn't significantly exacerbate the problem of carbon pollution," the president said. 
3.
 True or false: The Supreme Court has provided the legal underpinning of President Obama's climate agenda. 

Answer: True. In a bitterly divided 5-4 decision in 2007, before Mr. Obama became president, the high court ruled that the EPA has the legal authority to regulate greenhouse-gas emissions. 

4.
 When was the last time Congress passed legislation addressing climate change by mandating cuts in U.S. carbon emissions? 


a.
 2009 

b.
 2003 

c.
 Never 

d.
 2010 


Answer: C. The House in 2009 passed a bill that sought to limit how much carbon the U.S. economy could emit and to create a trading system for companies to buy and sell emissions credits, a market-based mechanism called "cap and trade." Republicans have criticized the proposal as an energy tax. Failing to gain enough support in the Senate, similar legislation never received a vote there. Democrats, who controlled the Senate at the time, announced in 2010 that they were abandoning efforts to pass any climate bill. 
5. The EPA's centerpiece climate regulation, called the Clean Power Plan, aims to cut carbon emissions from existing power plants 32% by 2030 from their 2005 levels. Power plants are the largest source of U.S. greenhouse-gas emissions, at about 30%, according to the EPA. What percentage of global carbon emissions does the U.S. utility sector represent, approximately? 
a.
 30% 

b.
 5% 

c.
 15% 

d.
 0.5% 
Answer: B., according to 2012 data from the International Energy Agency, the most recent global data available. 



6.
 True or false: States must either create or join cap-and-trade systems as a way to cut their carbon emissions and comply with the EPA's Clean Power Plan. 


Answer: False. The EPA has said that regional cap-and-trade systems, like the one in the Northeast or in California, can be one way states comply with the regulation. The agency is strongly encouraging states to join regional trading systems, but it isn't a requirement. 

7.
 Coal-fired power plants emit the most pollution, including carbon emissions, of any electricity source, according to the EPA. Because of a one-two punch of tough environmental rules and cheap, cleaner-burning natural gas, coal-fired electricity's share of total power production has dropped by what percentage since 2005? 


a.
 79% 

b.
 51% 

c.
 22% 

d.
 8% 


Answer: C. In 2005, coal accounted for nearly 50% of electricity in the U.S., and in 2015 that dropped to less than 40%. Coal-fired electricity is still the most plentiful source despite its decline. 
8. The EPA's Clean Power Plan proposes different goals for each state with fossil-fuel-fired power plants, and all such states must submit plans to comply with the rule beginning as soon as next year. Which state doesn't have any such plants and so isn't subject to the rule? 
a.
 Washington state 

b.
 Vermont 

c.
 Maine 

d.
 California 


Answer: B. Vermont is the only state with no fossil-fuel-fired power plants. Washington, D.C., also doesn't have any such plants and also isn't regulated by the Clean Power Plan. Furthermore, the EPA says it's not requiring compliance plans from Alaska or Hawaii right now either, because it doesn't have sufficient information on their power plants, though officials have indicated the states would eventually be required to comply. 
9. The U.S. and China are by far the world's biggest emitters of carbon. Taken together, what percentage of global carbon emissions do the two nations emit? 
a.
 62% 

b.
 34% 

c.
 86% 

d.
 42% 
Answer: D. China emits 26% of the world's carbon emissions and the U.S., 16%, according to 2012 data from the International Energy Agency. 



10. The administration's climate agenda is geared toward forging a global agreement to cut world-wide carbon emissions at a highly anticipated conference that begins Nov. 30 in Paris. What governing body hosts this annual conference, whose location changes every year? 
a.
 United Nations 

b.
 U.S. government 

c.
 World Bank 

d.
 International Monetary Fund 

e.
 Whatever country hosts the conference 


Answer: A. The United Nations held its first official conference of this kind -- called the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change -- in 1995 in Berlin. The conference in Paris will be the organization's 21st such meeting. 
Ms. Harder is a reporter in The Wall Street Journal's Washington bureau. She can be reached at amy.harder@wsj.com. 
Credit: By Amy Harder 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Greenhouse gases; 
Greenhouse effect; 
Emissions trading; 

Carbon; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Regulation; 
Regulatory agencies; 

Natural gas; 
Pipelines; 
Petroleum refineries; 

Series & special reports; 
Environmental protection; 
Climate change 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Obama, Barack 
Company / organization 	Name: Congress 

NAICS: 921120; 

Name: International Energy Agency NAICS: 926130, 928120, 541720; 
Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA NAICS: 924110 
Title 	Unleashing Innovation: Energy (A Special Report) --- Obama's Climate Agenda: Test Your 
Smarts: The president has been active on the environmental front; How much do you really 
know about what he's doing? 

Author 	Harder, Amy 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	R.2 
Publication year 	2015 
Publication date 	Sep 14, 2015 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 	00999660 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Feature  
ProQuest document ID  1711298855  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1711298855?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 212 of 376 


Powering Up for the Future in a Climate of Uncertainty 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]05 Sep 2015: A.12. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Powering+Up+for+the+Future+in+a+Climate+of+Uncertainty&title=Wa 09-05&volume=&issue=&spage=A.12&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The false threat of climate change caused by the use of fossil-fueled power plants and CO2 release is documented by the current 18-plus-year lack of change in the global temperature record as provided by NASA satellites, even as atmospheric CO2 has increased over 10%. 

Full Text 
The correct headline for the Aug. 29 letters responding to Daniel Yergin's "Power Up" essay isn't "Green, 'Alternative' Energy Is Moving to the Big Time" but "Green Part-Time Energy." Utility-scale green electricity exists as adjunct energy only because it is on a grid with full-time electricity producers. As the green movement kills full-time electricity producers, starting with coal, substituting so-called solar and wind "alternatives" will kill civilization as we know it. Think of reading essays at night by the light of candles. 
Storage of green energy can work for homes and other small nonutility applications, as Richard Factor writes about Arizona. In sunny Arizona, a reasonable-size battery can bridge the electricity gap from sunsets to sunrises. In New England, where five or more days can pass without a visible sunrise, battery sizes must grow by a factor of five or more. Universal utility-scale storage has yet to be invented. 
George F. Steeg 
Potomac Falls, Va. 
Paul Bledsoe's letter demonstrates his skills as political propagandist and environmental activist. Devoid of a single credible reference, his letter purports to solve the fact of eternal climate change. His letter speaks of authoritative dogma, not scientific argument. 
"Capturing carbon dioxide" isn't the answer. The Energy Department pulled support in February for FutureGen Industrial Alliance Inc., a public-private partnership to build a coal plant that would store its CO2 emissions. A similar project in Kemper County, Miss., is now projected to cost almost $5.6 billion, not the estimated $2.4 billion. Such plants require a secondary power-generation source to supply the approximate 40% additional energy to drive the CO2 compression and burial scheme. 
The false threat of climate change caused by the use of fossil-fueled power plants and CO2 release is documented by the current 18-plus-year lack of change in the global temperature record as provided by NASA satellites, even as atmospheric CO2 has increased over 10%. It is now over 10 years since a Category 3 or higher hurricane has hit the 
U.S. mainland. Two cycles of declining sunspot activity suggest a cooling trend. The droughts in the West are well-known to be cyclical. 
The true disaster for the Paris climate meeting is the lack of credible evidence for supporting the climate scare story. 
Charles G. Battig 
Scientists and Engineers for Energy and Environment 
Charlottesville, Va. 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Environmental protection; 
Essays; 

Carbon dioxide; 
Climate change; 
Coal-fired power plants 


Location 	Arizona 
Company / organization 	Name: National Aeronautics & Space Administration--NASA 

NAICS: 927110 


Title  Powering Up for the Future in a Climate of Uncertainty  
Author  Anonymous  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.12  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Sep 5, 2015  
Section  Letters to the Editor  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1709512940  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1709512940?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 213 of 376 


The EPA's Next Big Economic Chokehold 
Cox, Tony.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]02 Sep 2015: A.13. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=The+EPA%27s+Next+Big+Economic+Chokehold&title=Wall+Street+ 09-02&volume=&issue=&spage=A.13&au=Cox%2C+Tony&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Some studies, such as one published in August by National Economic Research Associates, estimate implementation costs of hundreds of billions of dollars a year in the short run, and trillions of dollars over the next two decades, as well as millions of lost jobs. Because attacking ozone involves almost every facet of the economy -- as the EPA notes, "automobiles, trucks, buses, factories, power plants" and "consumer products" all contribute to ground-level ozone. 

Full Text 
This fall the Environmental Protection Agency plans to take its next grand regulatory step, following the announcement of the EPA's Clean Power Plan over the summer. The agency is likely to introduce stringent new standards for ground-level ozone, arguing that a lower allowable level of ozone -- an important component of smog -- will reduce asthma in the U.S., among other claimed health benefits. Yet the EPA ignores decades of data and studies, some under the agency's auspices, that reveal no detectable causal relation between past reductions in ozone and better public health, including reductions in asthma cases. 
The new regulation may be the most expensive ever for the U.S. economy -- even worse than the Clean Power Plan's effect on coal-fired power plants. Some studies, such as one published in August by National Economic Research Associates, estimate implementation costs of hundreds of billions of dollars a year in the short run, and trillions of dollars over the next two decades, as well as millions of lost jobs. Why would it be so costly? Because attacking ozone involves almost every facet of the economy -- as the EPA notes, "automobiles, trucks, buses, factories, power plants" and "consumer products" all contribute to ground-level ozone. 
So it is important to be clear about what health benefits, if any, such costly reductions in ambient, or surrounding, ozone levels are known to cause. 
No one disputes that while average levels of ozone have fallen significantly across the nation since 2000, the number of asthma sufferers has increased. Yet advocacy and lobbying groups such as the Natural Resources Defense Council and the American Lung Association claim that cutting ozone in the future will reduce asthma. The Obama White House blames increasing numbers of asthma patients on climate change. 
The National Institutes of Health lists neither climate change nor ozone as a cause of asthma. It notes that the exact causes are unknown, with excessive hygiene in childhood (and resulting underdeveloped immune systems) being investigated as a hypothesis. Assertions that ambient ozone causes asthma have been criticized by many state air-quality regulators, including those in Texas, Ohio, Indiana and South Dakota. 
Undaunted, the EPA forges on. Its website notes "an association between ozone levels in the outdoor air and increased hospital admissions for respiratory causes, such as asthma." The website ignores how much of this statistical association is explained by noncausal factors, such as seasonal variations in weather and pollen that affect both asthma and ambient-ozone levels. 
Nonetheless, as urged by environmental lobbyists, the Obama administration is now considering cutting the National Ambient Air Quality Standard for ozone even further than it had originally planned, from a concentration of 75 parts per billion to as low as 60 parts per billion. In many locations, that is close to the naturally occurring background levels of ozone -- which is formed when sunlight falls on nitrogen oxides (naturally formed by bacteria, volcanos and lightning), together with volatile organic compounds emitted by trees and other natural sources. 
The EPA's prediction that reducing the man-made ozone level will reduce human suffering from asthma and other respiratory diseases is largely based on new and unproven statistical modeling that, in the EPA's own words "is convenient for fitting the model, but is not accurate." The conclusions from this inaccurate modeling are supported by the subjective opinions of experts from institutions that have received tens of millions of dollars of EPA funding (although their researchers routinely declare no conflict of interest or competing financial interests). These experts maintain, along with ranking Democrat on the House Energy and Commerce Committee Rep. Frank Pallone, that reducing ozone will "save lives" and cause improvements in public health in the future -- even if it hasn't done so in the past. 
Fortunately, there is abundant historical data on ozone levels and asthma levels in U.S. cities and counties over the past 20 years, many of which have made great strides in reducing ambient levels of ozone by complying with existing regulations. It is easy to check whether adverse outcomes, from mortality rates to asthma rates, have decreased more where ozone levels have been reduced more. They have not. Even relatively large reductions in ozone, by 20% or more, have not been found to cause detectable reductions in deaths and illnesses from cardiovascular and respiratory illnesses, contrary to the EPA's model-based predictions. 
How the EPA and society proceed when confronted with a divergence between optimistic model-based predictions and practical reality will say much about what role, if any, we collectively want science and objective analysis to play in shaping crucial environmental and public-health regulations. 
The cynical use of asthma patients to promote a pro-regulation political agenda that won't actually help them undermines the credibility of regulatory science and damages the public interest. 
Mr. Cox is the editor in chief of the peer-reviewed journal Risk Analysis and on the faculty of the University of Colorado School of Public Health. His Denver-based company, Cox Associates, develops and applies causal analyses for improving health outcomes. 
(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: Ozone Is a Complex Problem and Hurts Lungs" -- WSJ September 16, 2015) 
Credit: By Tony Cox 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Air pollution;  
Outdoor air quality;  
Public health;  
Environmental protection;  
Ozone;  
Environmental regulations  
Location  United States--US  
Company / organization  Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS: 924110;  
Name: National Institutes of Health  
NAICS: 923120  
Classification  1540: Pollution control  
4310: Regulation  
Title  The EPA's Next Big Economic Chokehold  
Author  Cox, Tony  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.13  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Sep 2, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1708737611  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1708737611?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  


document 214 of 376 


Green, 'Alternative' Energy Is Moving to the Big Time 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]29 Aug 2015: A.10. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Green%2C+%27Alternative%27+Energy+Is+Moving+to+the+Big+Time 08-29&volume=&issue=&spage=A.10&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Unlike large generation plants, enormous wind turbines and especially nuclear reactors, all of which require years of planning, personal and small industrial solar installations can be planned and installed in a month or so, and the rate of these installations is likely to accelerate rapidly. 

Full Text 
Daniel Yergin ("Power Up," Review, Aug. 22) is precisely right that new energy technologies have historically taken many decades to become price competitive and widely deployed. But climate change is a far more profound threat than any previous energy challenge. Climate change requires more profound and urgent policy responses than past transitions. We know how to cut emissions. Some combination of pricing carbon, regulation of emissions and efficiency, incentivizing alternatives and capturing carbon dioxide is needed. To be most effective, these policies must be adopted by all major emitting nations, which is why gaining an agreement at the climate negotiations in Paris this December is essential. Yes, oil, natural gas and coal will continue to have a role, if reduced, in our economies. But alternatives must be deployed, and quickly, because complacency in the face of climate disaster isn't economically or morally acceptable. 
Paul Bledsoe 
Arlington, Va. 
Mr. Bledsoe was communications director of the White House Climate Change Task Force under President Clinton. 
Dr. Yergin's prediction of slow and steady growth in solar from about 1% this year up to 4% to 9% of total global electricity by 2040 seems far short of the mark. As is already happening here in Arizona, and no doubt in other sunny states, the utilities are seeing their income from customers with rooftop solar greatly diminish. They understandably are fighting back by charging not just for electricity, but separately for connection to the grid. Maintaining the grid infrastructure is an enormous expense to utilities, and must be recovered from rate payers. Rooftop solar power can be infrastructure-free, just as many homeowners have their own wells and septic systems. As the utilities necessarily increase their connection charges to compensate for the newly disconnected, ever more people will think that utility power is a bad deal and also disconnect. This will ultimately result in electric utilities holding sway only in urban or perpetually cloudy areas. Unlike large generation plants, enormous wind turbines and especially nuclear reactors, all of which require years of planning, personal and small industrial solar installations can be planned and installed in a month or so, and the rate of these installations is likely to accelerate rapidly. 
Richard Factor 
Sedona, Ariz. 
I feel current "sustainability" ideas are on the wrong track. I don't think solar energy is sustainable because it takes too much energy to manufacture the panels and auxiliary equipment needed. Nuclear-power plants operate 24/7 and are, cradle to grave, the lowest CO2 energy sources. Their 100% duty cycle, compared with about 20% for solar, means less capital investment and less grid-management capital infrastructure. Solar and wind have about 30-year life expectancies compared with 60 to 120 years for new nuclear installations, again, reducing capital costs in both energy units and dollars. 
Richard J. McDonald 
Albany, Calif. 
(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: Powering Up for the Future in a Climate of Uncertainty" -- WSJ Sept. 5, 2015) 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Solar energy; 
Climate change; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Nuclear power plants; 

Infrastructure; 

Capital costs 


Title  Green, 'Alternative' Energy Is Moving to the Big Time  
Author  Anonymous  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.10  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Aug 29, 2015  
Section  Letters to the Editor  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1707976817  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1707976817?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 215 of 376 


Political Target: Natural Gas 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]24 Aug 2015: A.12. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Political+Target%3A+Natural+Gas&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=0 08-24&volume=&issue=&spage=A.12&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
President Obama's new climate-change rule requires that utilities move rapidly to increase production from solar and wind power, which can only be competitive if natural gas costs rise sharply.\n 

Full Text 
America's natural gas boom has been a rare economic bright spot, and even President Obama likes to take credit for it. But as his term winds down, the Administration is waging a war of regulatory attrition to raise drilling costs and reduce its competitive advantage over wind and solar power. 
The latest effort came last week when the Environmental Protection Agency issued its new rule to slash emissions of methane, a byproduct of oil and gas drilling. The industry will be required to cut methane emissions by 40% to 45% over the next decade from 2012 levels. The rule spares existing wells that make no changes, but all new or modified wells will have to install costly new methane mitigation systems. 
The rule follows new ozone limits proposed by the EPA last November, new limits issued in March on hydraulic fracturing on public lands, new moratoriums on drilling in and around Alaska, and a potential rule cracking down on greenhouse gas emissions from drilling on federal lands. Keep in mind the states already regulate natural-gas drilling, and they've done it well enough to avoid major accidents. 
Methane has long been a target of the green lobby because it is viewed as an especially potent contributor to global warming. Yet the EPA's own research shows methane emissions from drilling have been declining rapidly. 
The EPA's Greenhouse Gas Inventory acknowledged this year that methane emissions from natural gas production have fallen 35% since 2007. That's despite a 22% increase in gas production over the same period. The EPA last year found that methane emissions from hydraulically fractured gas wells had fallen 73% from 2011 to 2013. Overall methane emissions are 17% lower than in 1990. 
The industry has every incentive to capture methane emissions because it's also a valuable energy source that can be used to produce electricity and heat. The more methane that drillers capture, the better the return on their investment. The industry has already unleashed an array of technologies to prevent leakage from drilling, transportation and processing, and innovation is improving those tools. 
The new EPA rule will impose large new costs for little benefit. In 2013 methane emissions counted for about 9% of U.S. greenhouse gas emissions. Of that 9% about 3% are subject to the new rule, which would cut them in half. A Cato Institute study notes that even if the U.S. ceased all carbon emissions "now and forever," the effect would be to reduce the rise in temperatures by the end of the century by 0.10 degrees Celcius. The methane rule's contribution would be a mere 0.002 degrees Celsius. 
The rule will nonetheless do immediate harm to a drilling industry that is already under pressure from falling global energy prices. The shale gas revolution has created hundreds of thousands of jobs, reduced costs for U.S. manufacturers, raised millions in taxes and royalties for government, and increased U.S. energy security. The new costs will reduce the marginal return on drilling, which means fewer new wells. 
Our guess is that this is the real political purpose behind the wave of new drilling rules. The Administration has made coal its main fossil-fuel target, but the green lobby also has natural gas in its sights. A frontal assault is too politically risky, which is why regulatory attrition is the preferred approach. 
President Obama's new climate-change rule requires that utilities move rapidly to increase production from solar and wind power, which can only be competitive if natural gas costs rise sharply. The methane rule continues the assault, which is one more reason that the 2016 presidential election is crucial for continuing U.S. energy production. 
(See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: Tighter Methane Regulations Won't Kill Gas Drilling" -- WSJ Aug. 31, 2015) 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Methane; 

Emissions; 

Natural gas; 
Environmental protection; 
Editorials -- Natural gas 


Location 	United States--US 
People  Obama, Barack  
Company / organization  Name:  Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS:  924110  

Title  Political Target: Natural Gas  
Author  Anonymous  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.12  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Aug 24, 2015  
column  REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  1706155726  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1706155726?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 216 of 376 


REVIEW --- Power Up --- Natural gas, solar power and data-driven efficiency are making big gains, writes Daniel Yergin; but history shows that energy revolutions are never fast or neat 
Yergin, Daniel.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]22 Aug 2015: C.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=REVIEW+---+Power+Up+--­+Natural+gas%2C+solar+power+and+data­driven+efficiency+are+making+big+gains%2C+writes+Daniel+Yergin%3B+but+history+shows+that+energy+revolutions+are+never+fast+or+neat&title=Wall+Street+Journal&is 08-22&volume=&issue=&spage=C.1&au=Yergin%2C+Daniel&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Bill Gates recently committed $2 billion to "breakthrough" energy innovation because he is convinced that current technologies can reduce carbon-dioxide emissions -- and the human contribution to climate change -- only at costs that he has called "beyond astronomical." Over the next few months, with the approach of December's big climate-change conference in Paris -- more than 190 countries are expected to attend -- the discussion will grow more intense over how quickly the planet can move away from coal, oil and natural gas and toward a low-carbon future. 

Full Text 
Energy innovation and energy "transition" are today's hot topics. President Barack Obama aims to have 20% of U.S. electricity come from wind and solar by 2030. Presidential candidate Hillary Clinton has gone one better: A few weeks ago, she pledged that, within 10 years of her taking office, there would be enough renewable electricity to power every home in America. That would certainly be a sprint, given that wind and solar now account for less than 6% of our electricity. 
Some are more cautious about such prospects. Bill Gates recently committed $2 billion to "breakthrough" energy innovation because he is convinced that current technologies can reduce carbon-dioxide emissions -- and the human contribution to climate change -- only at costs that he has called "beyond astronomical." 
One thing is certain: Over the next few months, with the approach of December's big climate-change conference in Paris -- more than 190 countries are expected to attend -­the discussion will grow more intense over how quickly the planet can move away from coal, oil and natural gas and toward a low-carbon future. 
Such energy transitions are nothing new. They have been going on for more than two centuries. They have been transformative and undoubtedly will be again -- but if history teaches anything, it is that they don't happen fast. 
In 1824, a young French scientist and engineer named Sadi Carnot published a paper on "the motive force of fire." His aim was to explain the workings of an amazing half­century-old invention: James Watt's steam engine. His explanation -- the "Carnot cycle" -- is still taught to engineers. Carnot was convinced that this new technology was a critical factor in Britain's defeat of France in the Napoleonic wars, and he wanted to ensure that his countrymen could gain the same technological mastery. 
But Carnot also saw in the steam engine "a great revolution" in human civilization -- the harnessing of energy on a scale that would transform the world. Indeed, the steam engine set off the first major transition in world energy. Instead of relying on biomass -- wood, agricultural residue and waste -- as it had done for more than 400,000 years, humanity began to move to coal. 
We think of the 19th century as the era of coal, but as the distinguished Canadian energy economist Vaclav Smil has pointed out, coal only reached 5% of world energy supply in 1840, and it didn't get to 50% until about 1900. 
The modern oil industry began in 1859, but it took more than a century for oil to eclipse coal as the world's No. 1 source. "The most important historical lesson," Dr. Smil says, is that "energy resources require extended periods of development." 
A no less important lesson is that, even as newer sources overtake older ones, they also overlay them; the older hardly go away. Oil may have overtaken coal as the world's top energy source in the 1960s, but since then, global coal consumption has tripled. 
Previous transitions have occurred because of new technology and applications, changing costs and prices, and concerns about energy security. Today it is climate-change policy that is pushing the transition, seeking to replace lower-cost energy with what is, at least for now, higher-cost energy. The cost gap is currently being closed by a host of subsidies, incentives and regulations and by advances in technology and manufacturing. 
Two big innovations are now playing out across this new energy landscape. One of them is renewable: solar energy. The other is conventional: shale gas and shale oil. Both demonstrate what the physicist Steven Koonin, who served in the Obama administration as undersecretary of energy for science, calls the "Rule of Energy Inertia." 
As he explains, "The energy system evolves much more slowly than other technology-dependent sectors" because of its "sheer scale . . . and its ubiquity throughout our society." Also, he adds, because of "the amount of capital that is invested, the fact that infrastructure like power plants lasts so long, and the interconnectedness and interdependence of the whole system." 
Both shale and solar provide proof for Dr. Koonin's rule. The shale revolution might seem to have burst on the energy scene almost overnight, but it was actually a long time in the making. It largely began as the conviction of one man, a Houston natural-gas producer named George P. Mitchell. In the early 1980s, Mr. Mitchell became convinced that commercial natural gas could be produced from dense shale rock. Hardly anyone believed him. 
It wasn't until the late 1990s and early 2000s that the concept was proved with the successful yoking together of hydraulic fracturing (more famously known as fracking) and horizontal drilling, whose development went back to the 1980s. 
Instead of the permanent shortage of natural gas that was assumed a decade ago, it is now thought that the U.S. holds a supply that will last more than a century. Indeed, the 
U.S.
 is on track to become one of the world's largest exporters of liquefied natural gas. 

The same new techniques have been applied to oil as to shale, with transformative results. In 2008, the fear of running out of oil was pervasive. In 2015, just seven years later, 

U.S.
 oil production has almost doubled. This surge, combined with increasing Saudi and Iraqi supply, does much to explain the current oil-price collapse. 


The roots of the solar revolution go back even further, to a paper that Albert Einstein wrote in 1905 on the "photoelectric effect," for which he was awarded the Nobel Prize. It took more than a half-century for Einstein's theoretical insight to be applied. Functioning solar cells were hastily developed in the late 1950s to supply reliable electricity for U.S. satellites in the space race with the Soviet Union, but the cells were fantastically expensive. 
If solar energy was to become a practical terrestrial source of electricity, the cells needed to be cheaper -- much cheaper. One of the pioneers in that effort was a chemist named Peter Varadi. In 1973, he and fellow Hungarian refugee Joseph Lindmayer launched a company called Solarex in Rockville, Md. 
When they started, there was hardly a market for photovoltaic cells. Then customers began to emerge, mainly for applications in remote locations, off the grid. The U.S. Coast Guard bought solar cells to power its buoys. The oil industry did the same for offshore platforms. Illicit marijuana producers needed a lot of power for their greenhouses but also wanted to avoid getting fingered by the police because of oversize electric bills. 
But it seemed like the solar business would never reach sufficient scale. Solarex was profitable but short of capital, and Dr. Varadi and Dr. Lindmayer ended up selling it in 1983. Exxon, the other early entrant in the field, got out in 1984 because it couldn't see a significant market ahead in any reasonable time frame. By the beginning of the 1990s, the Economist was calling the solar industry "a commercial graveyard for ecologically minded dreamers." For struggling solar (and wind) entrepreneurs, the decade became known as the "valley of death." 
But then, at the beginning of this century, solar came back to life. The reason was Germany. In pursuit of a low-carbon future, the country launched its Energiewende (energy transition), which provided rich subsidies for renewable electricity. 
The biggest beneficiary of Germany's solar policy turned out to be not German industry, as had been expected, but China. Chinese companies rapidly built up low-cost manufacturing facilities and captured the German market, driving Q-Cells, the leading German company, into bankruptcy. 
The resulting overcapacity of Chinese factories pushed down costs, as did the falling price of silicon, the raw material that goes into solar cells. As a result, the cost of a solar cell has fallen by as much as 85% since 2006. Installation costs have also come down, though not to the same extent. 
With declining costs and expanding capacity, and with government subsidies and regulations, photovoltaics have taken off. Global sales of solar modules in 2014 were 70 times greater than in 2003. By the end of last year, the installed capacity of photovoltaics added up to nearly 200 gigawatts. In terms of actual generation, that matches the output of about 40 one-gigawatt nuclear reactors, since a nuclear plant produces power steadily while the output of solar panels requires daylight and varies from sunny days to cloudy ones. 
Solar is compelling in hot, sunny regions. Even there, it needs backup generation for times when it cannot operate. In many other locations, however, solar isn't competitive without subsidies and incentives of one kind or another. But a great deal of effort is going into technological innovation aimed at improving the efficiency of cells and lowering installation costs. And new financing mechanisms are emerging to facilitate adoption of the technology. 
"Solar is growing fantastically," says Dr. Varadi, who chronicles solar's rise in his new book, "Sun Above the Horizon." "Something like this requires time. Shale oil and shale gas had a ready market. When we started, we had no market at all, zero. And the industry had to get to mass production to bring down costs." 
Over the last six years, the contribution of photovoltaic solar to global electricity has increased tenfold. It is now up to 1% of world electricity, which is about 0.2% of total world energy. Scenarios developed by IHS (my own firm) show it getting up to 4% to 9% of total global electricity by 2040. 
Solar is growing rapidly in the U.S. and could account for nearly 1% of total electric generation by the end of the year. The amount of electricity from the other "new" renewable -- wind -- is currently much larger, almost 5% of total U.S. electricity. 
Like solar, modern wind power got its start during the energy crisis of the 1970s, which led to the "California wind rush" of the early 1980s. The industry was born from the marriage of sturdy Danish wind turbines with California tax credits and energy policies. 
Today, wind is on a growth path. In the past few years, manufacturing improvements and new designs have brought down costs, but wind, like solar, still needs incentives and subsidies to be competitive in most places. Wind now generates 3.5% of world electricity. According to scenarios developed by IHS, it could reach 9% to 13% of the global total by 2040. 
What could speed up solar and wind? The development of batteries that can store renewable electricity for those times when the sun isn't shining or the wind isn't blowing. A lot of investment and effort is going into meeting the challenge. Meanwhile, innovation with batteries is already having an impact on transportation with the emergence of the electric car. 
Here, too, there is a very long provenance. More than a century ago, Thomas Edison poured a substantial amount of his own money into trying to launch an electric car. He was absolutely convinced, he said, that "more electricity will be sold for electric vehicles than light." But in that race, he lost out to Henry Ford and his Model T. 
The introduction of the Tesla Model S in 2012 was a very impressive engineering and marketing feat. But the rechargeable lithium-ion battery that powers the car was originally invented in an Exxon laboratory during the energy crisis of the 1970s, when it was thought that oil was about to run out. 
The purpose, as M. Stanley Whittingham, the lead scientist on the project, wrote in the journal Science in 1976, was to develop batteries "for electric vehicle propulsion and for the storage of off-peak and solar power." But oil prices went down, and the "electrics" never arrived. 
Lithium batteries languished commercially until Sony began to use the technology in the 1990s to power video cameras, and then lithium became ubiquitous for a whole host of small portable products, including PCs and smartphones. Tesla has brought the lithium battery full circle, back to its original purpose of "electric vehicle propulsion." 
Another frontier for energy innovation gets less attention because it is less dramatic and certainly less visual: using energy more efficiently and thus using less of it. But the potential in this realm is very great. 
The U.S. is more than 2 1/2 times more energy efficient today than it was in the 1970s, when oil crises catapulted energy to the forefront of national politics. But there is still a great deal of slack in the system. By combining information technology, the Internet, and sophisticated monitoring and control tools, large buildings (for instance) can reduce their electricity consumption by 30% or more. 
Dr. Koonin, who is now at New York University, is working on these applications. His current research is in "urban informatics" -- sensing, collecting and analyzing the enormous amount of "big data" generated by city life. 
"Demand technology, whether based on informatics or better light bulbs, doesn't require massive investment or time. And it's shorter to demonstrate," says Dr. Koonin. 
"One of the things you want to do in a city is make it more efficient, whether in delivery of services, the flow of traffic, picking up trash or energy use in buildings. If you want to optimize, you need to know what is happening at a high level of granularity in terms of time and space. What's happening with traffic on 52nd Street right now? Or what is the load on the grid right now?" 
What innovation will power the next revolution in human civilization? It may well be something, as Bill Gates suggests, that we can't see clearly now. But when the breakthrough occurs, the chances are that it will have been 20, 30 or even 40 years in the making. Or maybe longer. 
Dr. Yergin is the author of "The Quest: Energy, Security and the Remaking of the Modern World" and "The Prize," for which he received the Pulitzer Prize. He is vice chairman of IHS, a research and information company. 
(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: Green, 'Alternative' Energy Is Moving to the Big Time" -- WSJ August 29, 2015) 
(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: Powering Up for the Future in a Climate of Uncertainty" -- WSJ Sept. 5, 2015) 
Credit: By Daniel Yergin 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Renewable resources; 
Innovations; 
Energy industry; 

Solar energy 


Location 	United States--US 
Title 	REVIEW --- Power Up --- Natural gas, solar power and data-driven efficiency are making big 
gains, writes Daniel Yergin; but history shows that energy revolutions are never fast or neat 

Author 	Yergin, Daniel 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	C.1 
Publication year 	2015 
Publication date 	Aug 22, 2015 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 	00999660 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	Commentary 
ProQuest document ID 	1705943802 
Document URL 	https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1705943802?accountid=14902 
Copyright 	(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further 
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Last updated 	2017-11-22 
Database US Newsstream 
document 217 of 376 


World News: World Watch 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]19 Aug 2015: A.7. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=World+News%3A+World+Watch&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=0099 08-19&volume=&issue=&spage=A.7&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Prime Minister Tony Abbott, who has been a skeptic on climate change and a champion of Australia's powerhouse coal industry, said after the decision that green groups were threatening growth and Australia's national interests. 

Full Text 
SRI LANKA Prime Minister Defeats Ex-President in Election Voters endorsed the policies of the country's new leaders in legislative elections that strengthened a coalition that wants to revamp the political system, work on postwar 
reconciliation and strengthen ties with the West. 
Results announced Tuesday showed a surge in support for Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe and his United National Party, giving him and his allies enough seats in the 225­member Parliament to form the next government. The UNP and its partners blocked a comeback bid by the country's ex-president, Mahinda Rajapaksa -- who was voted out of office in January amid accusations that he had 
abused his power during his nearly 10 years in office. Mr. Rajapaksa, who denies the allegations, was seeking to become prime minister. 
The results solidify Sri Lanka's pivot away from a political order dominated by Mr. Rajapaksa and his family. During his time in office, one of Mr. Rajapaksa's brothers was the economy minister, another was secretary of defense and a third was speaker of Parliament. -- Eric Bellman 
AUSTRALIA Government Seeks to Shield Mining Projects The conservative government plans to amend environmental laws to prevent green groups from challenging mining projects in which they have no direct involvement. Opening another front in a long-running battle with the environmental movement, Industry Minister Ian Macfarlane told Parliament on Tuesday that "there is a strategy to 
destroy jobs" and that activists were blocking resource projects "regardless of the economic impact on the community." 
The push to amend environmental laws comes after a court this month overturned approval for Indian conglomerate Adani Group to build one of the world's biggest new coal mines on scrubland near the Great Barrier Reef. Environmental groups went to court to try to stop the Carmichael coal-mine project amid concerns the mine and associated infrastructure in the Galilee Basin of tropical 
Queensland state could endanger a rare lizard known as the yakka skink and another vulnerable species, the ornamental snake. 
After that decision, the government said it would repeal parts of the Environmental Protection and Biodiversity Act that had allowed environmental groups to delay resource projects. Prime Minister Tony Abbott, who has been a skeptic on climate change and a champion of Australia's powerhouse coal industry, said after the decision that green groups were 
threatening growth and Australia's national interests. Mr. Abbott promised after winning power in 2013 to make the country more "open for business." 
Public concern over environmental issues has been rising during Mr. Abbott's time in office. 
-- Rob Taylor 

BANGLADESH Three Held in Killings Of Atheist Bloggers 
Police said they had arrested three alleged Islamist militants, including one they said is a British citizen, in connection with fatal assaults on atheist bloggers. 
Authorities in Dhaka said the men belonged to the banned terror group Ansarullah Bangla Team, which police say has links to international jihadist organizations and had admitted involvement in planning and carrying out machete attacks that killed two writers critical of Islam this year. 
The U.K. man, Touhidur Rahman, was the "main planner and financier" of the team behind the killings, said Cmdr. Mufti Mahmud Khan of the Rapid Action Battalion, a paramilitary police unit. 
-- Syed Zain Al-Mahmood 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Prime ministers; 
Environmental protection; 
Coal mining 


Title 	World News: World Watch 
Author 	Anonymous 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.7 
Publication year 	2015 
Publication date 	Aug 19, 2015 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 	00999660 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	News 
ProQuest document ID 	1704937453 
Document URL 	https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1704937453?accountid=14902 
Copyright 	(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further 
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Last updated 	2017-11-22 
Database 	US Newsstream 
document 218 of 376 


The Green Scare Problem 
Ridley, Matt.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]14 Aug 2015: A.13. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=The+Green+Scare+Problem&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999 08-14&volume=&issue=&spage=A.13&au=Ridley%2C+Matt&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Pesticides were not causing a cancer epidemic, as Rachel Carson claimed in her 1962 book "Silent Spring"; acid rain was not devastating German forests, as the Green Party in that country said in the 1980s; the ozone hole was not making rabbits and salmon blind, as Al Gore warned in the 1990s. [...]the environmental movement has repeatedly denied people access to safer technologies and forced them to rely on dirtier, riskier or more harmful ones. 

Full Text 
"We've heard these same stale arguments before," said President Obama in his speech on climate change last week, referring to those who worry that the Environmental Protection Agency's carbon-reduction plan may do more harm than good. The trouble is, we've heard his stale argument before, too: that we're doomed if we don't do what the environmental pressure groups tell us, and saved if we do. And it has frequently turned out to be really bad advice. 
Making dire predictions is what environmental groups do for a living, and it's a competitive market, so they exaggerate. Virtually every environmental threat of the past few decades has been greatly exaggerated at some point. Pesticides were not causing a cancer epidemic, as Rachel Carson claimed in her 1962 book "Silent Spring"; acid rain was not devastating German forests, as the Green Party in that country said in the 1980s; the ozone hole was not making rabbits and salmon blind, as Al Gore warned in the 1990s. Yet taking precautionary action against pesticides, acid rain and ozone thinning proved manageable, so maybe not much harm was done. 
Climate change is different. President Obama's plan to cut U.S. carbon-dioxide emissions from electricity plants by 32% (from 2005 levels) by 2030 would cut global emissions by about 2%. By that time, according to Energy Information Administration data analyzed by Heritage Foundation statistician Kevin Dayaratna, the carbon plan could cost the 
U.S. up to $1 trillion in lost GDP. The measures needed to decarbonize world energy are going to be vastly more expensive. So we had better be sure that we are not exaggerating the problem. 
But it isn't just that environmental threats have a habit of turning out less bad than feared; it's that the remedies sometimes prove worse than the disease. 
Genetically modified organisms (GMOs) are a case in point. After 20 years and billions of meals, there is still no evidence that they harm human health, and ample evidence of their environmental and humanitarian benefits. Vitamin-enhanced GM "golden rice" has been ready to save lives for years, but opposed at every step by Greenpeace. Bangladeshi eggplant growers spray their crops with insecticides up to 140 times in a season, risking their own health, because the insect-resistant GMO version of the plant is fiercely opposed by environmentalists. Opposition to GMOs has certainly cost lives. 
Besides, what did GMOs replace? Before transgenic crop improvement was invented, the main way to breed new varieties was "mutation breeding": to scramble a plant's DNA randomly, using gamma rays or chemical mutagens, in the hope that some of the monsters thus produced would have better yields or novel characteristics. Golden Promise barley, for example, a favorite of organic brewers, was produced this way. This method still faces no special regulation, whereas precise transfer of single well known genes, which could not possibly be less safe, does. 
Environmentalists are currently opposing neonicotinoid pesticides on the grounds that they may hurt bee populations, even though the European Union notes that honeybee numbers have been rising in the 20 years since they were introduced. The effect in Europe has been to cause farmers to return to much more harmful pyrethroid insecticides, which are sprayed on crops instead of used as seed dressing, hitting innocent bystander insects. And if Europeans had been allowed to grow GMOs, then less pesticide would be necessary. Again, green precaution increases risks. 
Nuclear power has been energetically opposed by the environmental lobby for decades, on the grounds of danger. Yet nuclear power causes fewer deaths per unit of energy generated than even wind and solar power. Compared with fossil fuels, nuclear power has prevented 1.84 million more deaths than it caused, according to a study by two NASA researchers. Opposition to nuclear power has cost lives. 
Likewise widespread opposition to fracking for shale gas, is based almost entirely on myths and lies, as Reason magazine's science correspondent, Ronald Bailey, has reported. This opposition has substantially delayed the growth of onshore gas production in Europe and in parts of the U.S. That has meant more reliance on offshore gas, Russian gas, and coal -- all of which have greater safety issues and environmental risks. Opposition to fracking has hurt the environment. 
In short, the environmental movement has repeatedly denied people access to safer technologies and forced them to rely on dirtier, riskier or more harmful ones. It is adept at exploiting people's suspicion of anything new. 
Many exaggerated early claims about the dangers of climate change have now been debunked. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has explicitly abandoned previous claims that malaria will likely get worse, that the Gulf Stream will stop flowing, the Greenland or West Antarctic Ice sheet will disintegrate, a sudden methane release from the Arctic is likely, the monsoon will collapse or long-term droughts will become more likely. 
Meanwhile, on the other side of the ledger, in contrast to our experience with acid rain and the ozone layer, the financial, humanitarian and environmental price of decarbonizing the energy supply is proving much steeper than expected. Despite falling costs of solar panels, the system cost of solar power, including land, transmission, maintenance and nighttime backup, remains high. The environmental impact of wind power -- deforestation, killing of birds of prey, mining of rare earth metals -- is worse than expected. According to the BP Statistical Review of World Energy, these two sources of power provided, between them, just 1.35% of world energy in 2014, cutting emissions by even less than that. 
Indoor air pollution, caused mainly by cooking over wood fires indoors, is the world's biggest cause of environmental death. It kills an estimated four million people every year, as noted by the nonprofit science news website, SciDev.Net. Getting fossil-fueled electricity and gas to them is the cheapest and quickest way to save their lives. To argue that the increasingly small risk of dangerous climate change many decades hence is something they should be more worried about is positively obscene. 
Mr. Ridley is the author of "The Rational Optimist: How Prosperity Evolves" (HarperCollins, 2010) and a member of the British House of Lords. His family leases land for coal mining in northern England. 
Credit: By Matt Ridley 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Environmental protection; 
Climate change; 
Genetically altered foods 


People 	Obama, Barack 
Title 	The Green Scare Problem 
Author 	Ridley, Matt 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.13 
Publication year 	2015 
Publication date 	Aug 14, 2015 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 	00999660 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	Commentary 
ProQuest document ID 	1703882091 
Document URL 	https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1703882091?accountid=14902 
Copyright 	(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further 
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Last updated 	2017-11-23 
Database 	US Newsstream 
document 219 of 376 


Obama's Climate Plan and Poverty 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]13 Aug 2015: A.10. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Obama%27s+Climate+Plan+and+Poverty&title=Wall+Street+Journa 08-13&volume=&issue=&spage=A.10&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
At the federal level, the EPA is creating a program that gives twice as large a subsidy for renewable and efficiency projects that are built in inner-city neighborhoods and disadvantaged rural areas. 

Full Text 
President Obama says that critics of his plan to decarbonize the economy are "the special interests and their allies in Congress" repeating "the same stale arguments" about "killing jobs and businesses and freedom." He adds that "even more cynical, we've got critics of this plan who are actually claiming that this will harm minority and low-income communities." 
Is he thinking of critics who work at the Environmental Protection Agency? Perhaps so, because multiple new antipoverty transfer programs are built into the EPA's new Clean Power Plan. The fine print is there, for anyone who cares to look, 1,317 pages into the rule's 1,560-page preamble. 
The EPA authors are careful to reiterate that "its benefits will greatly exceed its costs." (Sure.) But then they ever so gingerly observe that "it is also important to ensure that to the extent there are increases in electricity costs, that those do not fall disproportionately on those least able to afford them." 
In particular, the EPA is concerned about "low-income communities, communities of color, and indigenous communities." The agency orders states "to evaluate the effects of their plans on vulnerable communities and to take the steps necessary to ensure that all communities benefit from the implementation of this rule." These are the themes of "environmental justice," the political grievance school that argues for income redistribution to offset the allegedly disproportionate damage to the poor and minorities from pollution. 
It is more accurate to say that any economic disparities arise from the rule itself. Regulations that artificially raise energy prices are regressive. By definition the poor -- er, low-income community members -- spend a larger share of their incomes on fuel and utilities than the well-to-do climate activists of Marin County and Hyde Park. 
As energy prices rise, they spill into other basic needs like food, via fertilizer and feed, and housing, via building materials like cement. Everyone ends up with less disposable income and a diminished standard of living, but low-income workers really are worst off. 
The EPA thus requires states to set up "financial assistance programs" only for those living near or below the poverty line. As a model other than straight cash subsidies, the EPA cites a Maryland program that offers "free installation of energy conservation materials" such as window insulation and furnace retrofits. Another is New York, which hands out compact florescent lightbulbs and even new refrigerators. The resulting energy efficiency savings, the EPA helpfully notes, are "of particular value to low-income households who can least afford high energy bills." 
At the federal level, the EPA is creating a program that gives twice as large a subsidy for renewable and efficiency projects that are built in inner-city neighborhoods and disadvantaged rural areas. There will be job retraining for laid-off coal miners. The agency also plans to install more solar generation on top of or around public housing. So while it will raise their utility bills, at least the poor will get a complementary photovoltaic panel. 
Perhaps it is bad manners to suggest that the poor themselves might prefer higher incomes rather than the EPA's form of carbon justice. U.S. economic growth is already much slower than it should be, and the new EPA climate-change rule will make it worse by subtracting billions of dollars every year from potential GDP by misallocating capital and undermining business confidence. This will result in few opportunities and smaller wage gains, with damage to the poorest Americans in particular. 
For these reasons, a recent study commissioned by the National Black Chamber of Commerce estimates that the EPA plan will increase the black poverty rate to 32% in 2025 from 26% today. Hispanic poverty will rise to 29% from 23%. No fewer than 28 states raised such economic hardships in their comments to the EPA, to no avail. 
The contradiction of modern climate liberals is that they promise lower energy bills and a wind-and-solar jobs boom, with zero trade-offs. But then they demand more redistribution to mitigate the economic and human damage that are the real outcome of their policies. Instead of offering to weatherize the homes of the least fortunate, how about trying to increase prosperity? 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Low income groups; 
Cost control; 

Editorials -- Carbon offsets; 
Carbon offsets 


People 	Obama, Barack Company / organization Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA NAICS: 924110 
Title  Obama's Climate Plan and Poverty  
Author  Anonymous  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.10  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Aug 13, 2015  
column  REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  1703516255  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1703516255?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 220 of 376 


Tesla Is a Compliance Company 
Jenkins, Holman W, Jr.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]08 Aug 2015: A.11. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Tesla+Is+a+Compliance+Company&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn= 08-08&volume=&issue=&spage=A.11&au=Jenkins%2C+Holman+W%2C+Jr&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Speaking up as well are previously faceless myrmidons like Margo Oge, the recently retired chief of the Environmental Protection Agency's fuel-mileage efforts, and Mary Nichols, head of California's all-important Air Resources Board.\n 

Full Text 
Tesla's $70,000 Model S is as much a "compliance" vehicle as the electric cars built by other auto makers. That's one truth the audience didn't hear from Diarmuid O'Connell, Tesla vice president of business development, who made a much-noted appearance at a Michigan automotive seminar this week. 
Mr. O'Connell called on Washington to stiffen the already-stiff Obama fuel-mileage mandates. He criticized electric cars churned out by other car makers as mere "compliance vehicles" that are not "compelling" to consumers. 
Uh huh. The kettle speaks. Tesla benefits from a $7,500 buyers tax credit, and generates millions in revenues by selling emissions credits to other car makers under California's zero-emissions-vehicle mandate and federal greenhouse rules. 
Tesla is a compliance company. Don't take our word for it. Mr. O'Connell said if other makers don't want to build electric cars, "they can buy credits from us, and we will invest in electric vehicles for them." 
As for the Model S, Tesla's big seller may be "compelling" to its customers but it's also an absurd, anachronistic take on the electric automotive future it's supposed to herald. Form eschews function: It apes the conventional sports car with a long, sweeping hood to conceal a powerful piston engine that isn't there. It appeals to confused consumers who simultaneously want to display ostentation and green virtue. 
Which brings us to Mr. O'Connell's vocal support for increased mileage mandates. These, in theory, are a mixed bag for Tesla. They generate tradable credits but also pollute the market for electric cars with vehicles built and dumped at a loss. But the rules also prop up Tesla's share price by making the company a potential acquisition target for a full-line auto maker looking to offset its pickups and SUVs. 
In reality, Mr. O'Connell's conspicuous plumping for tougher mileage mandates is about something else. Tesla seeks to foster a political mood favorable to the extension of the tax credit without, you know, actually publicly lobbying for a grotesquely regressive handout. Yet it's easy to extrapolate that Tesla's entire market capitalization of $34 billion is nothing but the discounted present value of its expected future subsidies. Tesla, like any business, doesn't leave money on the table in its pricing. And the tax credit will become even more important, and a bigger part of Tesla's implicit revenue, when it launches its $35,000 Model 3 for the mass market. 
All this emerges right now because of the coming "midterm review" of the Obama 54.5 miles-per-gallon target for 2025, which seems increasingly problematic when gas is selling for $2.63 nationally. 
An instant classic in the annals of central planning is a new report from the National Academy of Sciences, which congratulates the administration on its success so far and predicts continued success. Included is only a slight caveat: The Obama rules require auto makers to make plug-in green cars but don't require consumers to buy them, and "there is evidence that consumers will not widely adopt technologies that interfere with driver experience, comfort or perceived utility even for large improvements in fuel economy." 
Weight reduction also is playing a bigger role than Team Obama anticipated, so "there could be a negative impact on safety due to variance in the distribution of the mass across the vehicle fleet." 
Speaking up as well are previously faceless myrmidons like Margo Oge, the recently retired chief of the Environmental Protection Agency's fuel-mileage efforts, and Mary Nichols, head of California's all-important Air Resources Board. 
In interviews with the media, both exude confidence in Obama plans to sweep the gasoline engine into history's trash heap but are imprecise on the benefits of doing so. Ms. Nichols drives an electric Honda Fit around Sacramento -- where more than half of electric supply comes from fossil fuels. Ms. Oge, who drives a rechargeable Chevy Volt, is a habitue of D.C. and suburban Virginia, where 60% of the electricity is generated from carbon-emitting sources, predominantly coal. 
But never mind: If every car in America were electric and recharged using only renewables, the impact would be less than 2% of global emissions. Even the new Obama power-plant rules, which would be far more consequential, would prevent only 0.03 degrees Celsius of warming by 2100 (and then only if climate models predicting substantial warming are right). 
So expect the Obama mileage rules to be felt widely -- in the steepening price of new cars, in reduced revenues for traditional auto companies and their workers, in growing wealth for Tesla founder Elon Musk. One place the rules won't have meaningful impact is climate change. 
(See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: The Tesla Model S: Form Follows Function" -- WSJ August 24, 2015) 
Credit: By Holman W. Jenkins, Jr. 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Compliance;  
Automobile industry;  
Electric vehicles  
Location  California  
People  O Connell, Diarmuid  
Company / organization  Name: Tesla Motors Inc  
NAICS: 336999  
Classification  8680: Transportation equipment industry  
9190: United States  
Title  Tesla Is a Compliance Company  
Author  Jenkins, Holman W, Jr  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.11  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Aug 8, 2015  
column  Business World  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1702180765  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1702180765?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 221 of 376 


The Religion of Climate Change 
Hahn, Nicholas G, III.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]07 Aug 2015: A.9. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=The+Religion+of+Climate+Change&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn= 08-07&volume=&issue=&spage=A.9&au=Hahn%2C+Nicholas+G%2C+III&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Mr. Obama's regulations aim to reduce power-plant carbon emissions by 32% from 2005 levels by 2030. [...]he implicitly renews his January 2008 pledge to "bankrupt" the coal industry. 

Full Text 
When President Obama on Monday announced new "Clean Power Plan" regulations to help mitigate climate change, more than a few religious leaders were quick to offer their blessing. Some 170 evangelicals -- pastors, religion professors, nonprofit directors and others -- sent an open letter to the president "to offer our support and encouragement for your efforts to overcome the climate challenge." 
The Evangelical Environmental Network, as the group calls itself, would "prefer that Congress act to reduce carbon pollution through a market-based approach, such as a revenue-neutral carbon tax swap that cuts other taxes," but is nonetheless "grateful" for the president's executive action. 
Mr. Obama also seemed to indicate that his proposed rules have the imprimatur of another faith leader. "As Pope Francis made clear in his encyclical this summer," the president said in his speech, "taking a stand against climate change is a moral obligation." 
The Catholic Church would usually condemn blatant politicization of theological documents like Pope Francis' encyclical Laudato Si', but not this time. The United States Conference of Catholic Bishops wrote on Monday to "welcome this important move by the administration to adopt long-awaited standards to mitigate climate change and safeguard public health." 
The bishops went further, encouraging lawmakers to "oppose legislation and appropriations riders designed to reverse efforts to implement a national standard to reduce carbon pollution from existing power plants." 
This teaming up of church and state on environmental issues has become common. On July 25 the recently appointed Archbishop of Chicago, Blase Cupich, toured a Catholic school with Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Gina McCarthy. The archbishop invited the EPA to monitor archdiocesan power and water usage. "The Archdiocese of Chicago has partnered with the EPA's Energy Star program, as it works to make its operations more sustainable and efficient," the pair wrote in an op-ed for the Chicago Sun-Times. 
Yet the archdiocese might have been trying to save its churches and their religious freedoms, not water. In 2011 Mayor Rahm Emanuel began to phase out an exemption that gave churches free water -- a $20.3 million annual bill the city could no longer afford. But the late Cardinal Francis George, previously the archbishop of Chicago, suggested the mayor's move wasn't entirely about balancing the budget. "If you don't want a city that only has government institutions," he said during negotiations over the exemption in April 2013, "then you have to see to the solvency of religious institutions and other nonprofits." 
Archbishop Cupich and other spiritual shepherds should be wary of how this administration is conscripting religious institutions. Here's a small but illustrative example: The EPA recently awarded an $84,000 grant to the University of Michigan to study how 17 faith institutions have organized "sustainability programs," with the goal of developing workshops for pastors and faith leaders. "The results will provide insights into the role of religion and faith communities in motivating environmental behavior," the grant said. The real purpose is to figure out how to better use religious leaders as political pawns. 
Pope Francis should avoid making any imprudent statements during his visit to the U.S. in September, lest he get further entangled in the president's agenda. The Clean Power Plan doesn't put humans at the center of the environment, as Laudato Si' recommends. Mr. Obama's regulations aim to reduce power-plant carbon emissions by 32% from 2005 levels by 2030. Thus he implicitly renews his January 2008 pledge to "bankrupt" the coal industry. The Heritage Foundation predicts that by 2030 the plan would result in an "average annual employment shortfall of nearly 300,000 jobs." 
Furthermore, this plan will do little if anything to accomplish Pope Francis' aims of addressing global climate change or encouraging humans to be better stewards of the earth. The Cato Institute, for instance, found that the Clean Power Plan would only avert a future rise in temperature by "less than two one-hundredths of a degree Celsius by the year 2100." 
Though the pope's letter on the environment frequently blames markets for ecological damage, it is not without a defense of work. Pope Francis calls business a "noble vocation" and suggests "developing the created world in a prudent way is the best way of caring for it." He says financial subsidies for the poor "must always be a provisional solution," and the "broader objective should always be to allow them a dignified life through work." But instead of a preferential option for the poor who would benefit from working in a coal plant, or working in a factory that depends on low-cost energy, prelates have a preferential option for the EPA. 
As for those who seek to politicize the pulpit, Pope Francis is clear in his encyclical: "the Church does not presume to settle scientific questions or to replace politics." The planet and her poor would be better off if more religious leaders said Amen to that. 
Mr. Hahn is the editor of RealClearReligion.org. 
Credit: By Nicholas G. Hahn III 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Religion; Carbon; Climate change; Environmental protection; Evangelicalism  
Location  United States--US  
People  Obama, Barack  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Congress 921120;  
Name: NAICS:  United States Conference of Catholic Bishops 813110;  
Name: NAICS:  Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 924110;  
Name: NAICS:  Evangelical Environmental Network 813110  
Title  The Religion of Climate Change  
Author  Hahn, Nicholas G, III  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.9  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Aug 7, 2015  
column  Houses of Worship  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1702046579  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1702046579?accountid=14902  

Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 222 of 376 


Climate-Change Putsch 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]04 Aug 2015: A.12. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Climate­Change+Putsch&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2015-08­04&volume=&issue=&spage=A.12&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
To meet the EPA's targets, states must pass new laws or regulations to shift their energy mix from fossil fuels, subsidize alternative energy, improve efficiency, impose a cap­and-trade program, or all of the above. [...]the new rule's central planning favors green energy sources like wind and solar. 

Full Text 
Rarely do American Presidents display the raw willfulness that President Obama did Monday in rolling out his plan to reorganize the economy in the name of climate change. Without a vote in Congress or even much public debate, Mr. Obama is using his last 18 months to dictate U.S. energy choices for the next 20 or 30 years. This abuse of power is regulation without representation. 
The so-called Clean Power Plan commands states to cut carbon emissions by 32% (from 2005 levels) by 2030. This final mandate is 9% steeper than the draft the Environmental Protection Agency issued in June 2014. The damage to growth, consumer incomes and U.S. competitiveness will be immense -- assuming the rule isn't tossed by the courts or rescinded by the next Administration. 
States have regulated their power systems since the early days of electrification, but the EPA is now usurping this role to nationalize power generation and consumption. To meet the EPA's targets, states must pass new laws or regulations to shift their energy mix from fossil fuels, subsidize alternative energy, improve efficiency, impose a cap-and­trade program, or all of the above. 
Coal-fired power will be the first to be shot, but the EPA is targeting all sources of carbon energy. As coal plants have retired amid seven years of EPA assault, natural gas recently eclipsed coal as the dominant source of electric power. This cleaner-burning gas surge has led to the cheapest and fastest emissions plunge in history, but the EPA isn't satisfied. 
Thus the new rule's central planning favors green energy sources like wind and solar. The plan expands their quotas and funding, while punishing states that are insufficiently enthusiastic. The EPA estimates renewables will make up 28% of U.S. electric capacity by 2030, up from less than 5% today. 
The rule is the first step in a crescendo of climate-change politics that Mr. Obama is planning for his final days. In September he will commune with Pope Francis on the subject, and then jet to Paris in hopes that his new rule shows enough U.S. progress that the climate treaty conference in December will reach some grand accord. 
As for the home front, the point is to bull-rush states into making permanent changes to their energy systems. The investments and lead times in new power plants and transmission lines on this scale are generational. Yet state compliance plans are due in September 2016, and most of the carbon reductions must be complete by 2022. 
The White House and EPA know they are distorting the law beyond recognition and that this rule will be litigated for years. But they figure that if they can intimidate the states into enacting as much change as fast as possible, a legal defeat won't matter because the outcome will be a fait accompli. 
The Supreme Court did give EPA the authority to regulate carbon emissions in Mass. v. EPA in 2007. But that was not a roving license to do anything the EPA wants. The High Court has rebuked the agency twice in the last two years for exceeding its statutory powers. 
"When an agency claims to discover in a long-extant statute an unheralded power to regulate a significant portion of the American economy, we typically greet its announcement with a measure of skepticism," the Court warned last year. "We expect Congress to speak clearly if it wishes to assign to an agency decisions of vast economic and political significance." 
Congress did no such thing with the Clean Power Plan, which is a new world balanced on a fragment of the Clear Air Act called Section 111(d). This passage runs a couple hundred words and was added to the law in 1977, well before the global warming stampede. Historically Section 111(d) has applied "inside the fence line," meaning the EPA can set performance standards for individual plants, not for everything connected to those sources that either produces or uses electricity. 
When the EPA rule does arrive before the Justices, maybe they'll rethink their doctrine of "Chevron deference," in which the judiciary hands the bureaucracy broad leeway to interpret ambiguous laws. An agency using a 38-year-old provision as pretext for the cap-and-tax plan that a Democratic Congress rejected in 2010 and couldn't get 50 Senate votes now is the all-time nadir of administrative "interpretation." 
Meantime, states can help the resistance by refusing to participate. The Clean Air Act is a creature of cooperative federalism, and Governors have no obligation to craft a compliance plan. The feds will try to enforce a fallback, but they can't commandeer the states, and they lack the money, personnel and bandwidth to overcome a broad boycott. Let's see how much "clean power" the EPA really has. 
The states have good reason to avoid collaborating in a scheme that will result in higher prices for consumers and business as the EPA mandates are passed down the energy chain. The plan also endangers electric reliability, and the strains to the grid could lead to brownouts or worse. The EPA added a reliability "safety valve" in the final rule as a concession that these risks are real, but this offers little protection in practice. 
This plan is essentially a tax on the livelihood of every American, which makes it all the more extraordinary that it is essentially one man's order. Mr. Obama's argument is that climate change is too important to abide by relics like the rule of law or self-government. It is an important test of the American political system to prove that he is wrong. 
(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: Why Not Sanctuary (From the EPA) States?" -- WSJ August 17, 2015) 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Environmental regulations;  
Emissions control;  
Industrial plant emissions;  
Alternative energy;  
Climate change;  
Coal-fired power plants;  
Editorials -- Climate change  
Location  United States--US  
People  Obama, Barack  
Company / organization  Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS: 924110  
Classification  1540: Pollution control  
4310: Regulation  
9190: United States  
Title  Climate-Change Putsch  
Author  Anonymous  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.12  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Aug 4, 2015  
column  REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  1700876208  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1700876208?accountid=14902  

Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 223 of 376 


A Clean-Energy Breakthrough 
Krupp, Fred.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]04 Aug 2015: A.13. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=A+Clean­Energy+Breakthrough&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2015-08­04&volume=&issue=&spage=A.13&au=Krupp%2C+Fred&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
With the Environmental Protection Agency's Clean Power Plan now final, the era of unlimited carbon pollution from U.S. power plants is finally coming to an end. Clean energy now delivers three times as many jobs per dollar invested as fossil-fuel investments. Because of this progress, many states are well-positioned to meet the 2030 goals that the EPA first proposed in the Clean Power Plan last year. 

Full Text 
With the Environmental Protection Agency's Clean Power Plan now final, the era of unlimited carbon pollution from U.S. power plants is finally coming to an end. That's excellent news, because climate change has put us in the race of our lives -- and the countries that move the fastest toward clean energy will be the most competitive, create the most jobs and have the healthiest air. It's a race to the top, and the Clean Power Plan gives the U.S. a better chance of winning. 
Some question whether the EPA has the authority to take this step. They are arguing a point that was settled eight years ago. The Supreme Court ruled in 2007 that the EPA has a clear responsibility under the Clean Air Act to act to reduce emissions of climate-altering pollution. 
The plan is also necessary. Without it, a lack of basic federal standards to reduce power-plant emissions created a bad mix of uncertainty for industry and unsafe pollution for the climate. The longer we delay addressing climate-change issues in a serious way, the greater the risk posed to national economic growth, long-term investment and job creation. The Clean Power Plan represents an important step toward addressing those risks. 
The EPA has created a prudent framework for action choosing the most flexible options available. The final standards are eminently reasonable. Indeed, the plan gives each state broad latitude to design an approach that fits its needs and maximizes its strengths, while ensuring that emissions goals are met at the least cost. 
States can choose to expand renewable energy and distributed generation, rely more on lower-emitting sources, or a host of other approaches. Each state has the opportunity to align emissions reductions with its own policy priorities, boosting innovation and job creation, modernizing its energy infrastructure, and saving businesses and families money by improving energy efficiency. 
States should use this watershed moment to remove existing barriers to energy freedom and consumer choice. Outmoded rules in many states make it harder for homeowners to install solar panels -- and Americans across the political spectrum have made it clear that they want more control over the electricity they use. 
Driving down carbon emissions will ramp up the energy transformation that is already happening across America. What once seemed exotic -- electric cars, highly efficient appliances, competitively priced clean energy -- is becoming commonplace. In 2014, the clean-energy market in the U.S. expanded by 14%, to almost $200 billion. That is bigger than the domestic airline industry. Solar panels cost one-fifth of what they did in 2008, while installed capacity of solar is six times higher. Wind power now costs less than coal in some places -- and will likely be less expensive than even natural gas within the next 10 years. There is positive data on the jobs front, too. Clean energy now delivers three times as many jobs per dollar invested as fossil-fuel investments. 
Because of this progress, many states are well-positioned to meet the 2030 goals that the EPA first proposed in the Clean Power Plan last year. Most states are already well on their way. And now this growth will happen even faster, as the EPA's plan gives companies the incentive to make investment decisions that focus on cleaner energy. For the customer in states that lower emissions by creating opportunities for more efficient use of energy, the plan will mean that home electric bills will be lower and individual control of electricity use will be higher. 
These new standards will cut climate pollution directly, and they have already helped drive climate action at the international level. We saw direct evidence of that last year when the U.S. and China made an unprecedented joint announcement of their climate goals. 
It is also important to understand that this plan will not solve climate change by itself. Millions of Americans joined the fight for these standards because we have a responsibility to leave the world a better place than we inherited. There is no silver bullet for this fight, and we will have plenty of opportunities to build on this step in the months and years ahead, including: 
-- Reduce methane pollution that accounts for one-quarter of today's warming. 
-- Continue American leadership to get other nations to cut climate pollution, and to agree on targets that will meet the scale of this challenge. 
-- Sign into law a comprehensive, market-based system that puts a price and limit on climate pollution from major emitters and gives businesses further incentives for clean-energy innovation. 
Bill Gates recently said, "If we create the right environment for innovation, we can accelerate the pace of progress, develop and deploy new solutions, and eventually provide everyone with reliable, affordable energy that is carbon free." I believe that the Clean Power Plan will help establish that environment for innovation and lead us to a cleaner, healthier and more prosperous future. 
Mr. Krupp is the president of the Environmental Defense Fund. 
(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: EPA's Plan: Little Gain for High Legal, Economic Cost" -- WSJ Aug. 13, 2015) Credit: By Fred Krupp 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Environmental regulations;  
Industrial plant emissions;  
Clean technology;  
Alternative energy;  
Energy industry;  
Job creation;  
Emission standards;  
Climate change  
Location  United States--US  
Company / organization  Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS: 924110  
Classification  1540: Pollution control  
4310: Regulation  
Title  A Clean-Energy Breakthrough  
Author  Krupp, Fred  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.13  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Aug 4, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1700876155  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1700876155?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  

Database US Newsstream 
document 224 of 376 


Power-Plant Emissions Rules To Alter, Challenge Industry 
Harder, Amy; Colleen McCain Nelson; Smith, Rebecca.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]03 Aug 2015: A.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Power­Plant+Emissions+Rules+To+Alter%2C+Challenge+Industry&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2015-08­03&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Harder%2C+Amy%3BColleen+McCain+Nelson%3BSmith%2C+Rebecca&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=i 

Abstract 
Industry experts say cutting carbon emissions 32% by 2030 will require billions of dollars in investments for new transmission lines that accommodate more solar and wind power and new pipelines to feed natural-gas-fired power plants, as coal becomes less important as a fuel. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- A new rule mandating the first-ever federal limits on power-plant carbon emissions aims to change the way Americans make and consume electricity, accelerating a shift already under way toward cleaner fuels, renewable energy and consumer-generated power. 
The regulations, which will be unveiled by President Barack Obama at a White House event Monday, are part of a broader push by the administration to position the U.S. as a leader in tackling climate change. The Environmental Protection Agency regulations are central to the administration's submission to an international climate conference set for December in Paris. 
White House officials say Mr. Obama views addressing climate change as part of his legacy. He announced an aggressive climate deal with China in November and has put the issue high on the agenda in meetings with world leaders in recent months. The president also will discuss climate change with Pope Francis during his visit to the U.S. next month, following the pope's release of an encyclical on the issue in June. 
"This rule enhances in important ways our ability to achieve the international commitments that we have made," Brian Deese, a senior adviser to Mr. Obama, told reporters Sunday. 
But divisions at home cast some doubt on the administration's ability to fully implement the regulations, which were released in draft form a year ago. 
Industry officials say they are worried about the plan's cost and timetable. Republicans in Congress and states hardest hit by the plan say they will fight it. More than a dozen states and the coal industry have vowed to sue the EPA, and several states have threatened to refuse to comply with the rule. 
The rule would require a 32% cut in power-plant carbon dioxide emissions by 2030 from 2005 levels, an increase from the 30% target proposed last year. EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy said Sunday the rule would result in an estimated annual cost of $8.4 billion by 2030 and have total benefits, including public-health benefits, of $34 billion to $54 billion per year by then. 
The regulations require states to draft their own plans to reduce power-plant emissions to reach an overall carbon reduction target nationwide. States would have to put in place compliance plans by 2018 and meet their first targets for reductions by 2022. As with the draft rule released last year, the EPA would impose a federal plan on states that don't comply, according to the administration. 
The final rule calls for the nation to get 28% of its electricity from renewable resources by 2030, versus roughly 13% last year. Industry experts say cutting carbon emissions 32% by 2030 will require billions of dollars in investments for new transmission lines that accommodate more solar and wind power and new pipelines to feed natural-gas-fired power plants, as coal becomes less important as a fuel. 
U.S. electric utilities have already taken steps to shift to less carbon-intensive fuels, and they worry about the degree to which their whole system will need to be upgraded to accommodate more renewable energy, much of it generated by customers with solar panels or other equipment. 
The industry, experts said, expects to spend more than $100 billion next year on capital projects, and will adjust its spending programs to reflect the new rules even as court challenges proceed. 
"Utilities already are moving in that direction by retiring coal plants and adding renewables," said Nick Akins, chief executive of Ohio-based American Electric Power Co., one of the nation's biggest utilities, which has been a major user of coal. Though some states may object to the EPA rule, he said, most utilities "will be reaching out to our states and be very factual and objective and see if we can comply." 
Executives worry about the EPA plan's cost, in part because it could result in shutting power plants that aren't yet paid off, Mr. Akins said, meaning consumers will have to pay for assets that aren't providing benefits. 
Administration officials said Sunday they had taken industry concerns into account in the year since the draft was released. Most significantly, the final rule pushes back the first year that states must begin complying, to 2022 from 2020. 
In another nod to industry concerns, the final rule would help encourage nuclear power generation, which doesn't emit any carbon and accounts for about 20% of the U.S.'s electricity. 
Nuclear reactors under construction in Tennessee, South Carolina and Georgia will get credit toward compliance with the rule, a change from the proposal, according to the administration. Nuclear plants that boost their output also will get more credit. 
One industry concern is the final rule seeks to prevent a wholesale shift to natural gas. Over the past few years, utilities have been burning more gas, which produces 50% less carbon emissions than coal but still more than zero-emitting sources like wind and nuclear power. That shift has been helped along by the domestic boom in gas production since 2008 aided by new drilling methods such as hydraulic fracturing, or fracking. 
The 2014 draft rule relied on a large and early shift from coal to natural gas. The final regulations would remove that assumption and instead create a new program to encourage states to deploy more renewable energy and energy efficiency by giving credits toward compliance on such projects that begin construction early on. 
Analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. said the rule would increase utility consumption of natural gas by 7.1 billion cubic feet a day, or 32%, enough to lift national demand for it by about 10%. The big loser -- the coal industry -- will see consumption drop 23% by 2020, adding to the crisis already rocking mining. Some opponents have labeled the rule a "war on coal." 
"We'll hear the same tired plays from the same special-interest playbook, but the American people know better," Ms. McCarthy said. 
To date, states including California and nine in the Northeast have been in the minority in devising programs to trim carbon dioxide emissions blamed for climate change. 
The new rule "will act like an accelerant," said Ted Craver, chief executive of California-based Edison International, parent of Southern California Edison. "Now all the states will have to grapple with the need to reduce carbon emissions." 
Electric-grid operators would need to make sure their systems can handle power flowing from decentralized sources, such as millions of rooftop solar systems and thousands of wind turbines. 
Utilities have been shutting coal plants for several years to satisfy other EPA rules. Since 2011, Duke Energy Corp. says it has retired 40 older coal units in the Carolinas and the Midwest and replaced them with super-efficient coal units or gas-fired plants at a total cost of $9 billion. 
Credit: By Amy Harder, Colleen McCain Nelson and Rebecca Smith 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Climate change; 
Environmental protection; 
Electric utilities; 

Alternative energy; 

Coal-fired power plants; 
Federal regulation; 
Emissions control; 
Industrial plant emissions 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Obama, Barack 
Classification 	1540: Pollution control 

8340: Electric, water & gas utilities 

4310: Regulation 

9190: United States 


Title 	Power-Plant Emissions Rules To Alter, Challenge Industry 
Author 	Harder, Amy; Colleen McCain Nelson; Smith, Rebecca 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.1 
Publication year 	2015 
Publication date 	Aug 3, 2015 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 	00999660 
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1700639988  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1700639988?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 225 of 376 


States Should Shun the EPA's New Power Mandate 
Quinn, Hal; Glaser, Peter.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]03 Aug 2015: A.13. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=States+Should+Shun+the+EPA%27s+New+Power+Mandate&title=W 08-03&volume=&issue=&spage=A.13&au=Quinn%2C+Hal%3BGlaser%2C+Peter&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The plan is designed to hobble electricity generators much as the Environmental Protection Agency's 2012 rule to reduce mercury and other emissions has harmed the coal industry. 

Full Text 
On Monday President Obama is announcing the final version of his Clean Power Plan, the carbon-emission rules for power plants to secure his climate-change legacy. The plan is designed to hobble electricity generators much as the Environmental Protection Agency's 2012 rule to reduce mercury and other emissions has harmed the coal industry. 
Fortunately for consumers, on June 29 the Supreme Court slapped down the agency's 2012 rule. In Michigan v. EPA, the court said the agency failed its legal obligation to compare the cost of its mercury standards with the benefits. 
Reckless disregard for costs has also guided the agency's Clean Power Plan. The White House promises Monday's rule will offer more flexibility to meet emissions targets than an earlier draft, but the targets may be even more difficult to meet. That will force rate payers into steeper cost increases, and concessions the EPA makes to some states and industries will come at the expense of others. 
If the EPA succeeds, Americans will be paying for decades. NERA Economic Consulting estimates that the Clean Power Plan will cost $366 billion and bring double-digit electricity-rate increases to 43 states. Regulators including the North American Electric Reliability Corporation warn that the plan could weaken the reliability of the national electric grid by forcing many power plants to close well before new ones can be built. Yet even the administration admits that the EPA plan will have only a trivial impact on the climate. 
The Clean Power Plan gives each state an emissions budget and an ultimatum: Give us a plan to cut your carbon emissions using our assumptions about energy-efficiency improvements, green-energy construction, etc. -- or we will impose a federal plan on your state. Never mind that most states have objected to the EPA plan. 
Governors thus face a dilemma: Accept the EPA's invitation by developing a state plan and open their states to lawsuits for any perceived breach, or decline to cooperate and take their chances with a federal plan. 
The EPA says the Michigan decision has no bearing on the legality of the Clean Power Plan because the agency considered costs as it developed the rule. In all likelihood, the agency will again try to obscure the real costs of its regulations -- by double-counting benefits derived from rules already on the books -- as it did in the mercury rule. 
But the Supreme Court's decision in Michigan casts a longer shadow over EPA ambitions than the admonition to consider costs. The decision also affirmed the principle that an agency is not entitled to rewrite the law by selecting the legislative words it likes while discarding the ones it does not. The law directs the EPA to determine whether it is both "appropriate and necessary" to impose more regulatory burdens on power plants -- but the agency heeded only the word "necessary," altogether ignoring whether more regulations were "appropriate" in view of the massive potential costs. This, said the court, was an unreasonable interpretation. 
This is where the agency's hubris may be its undoing. In the Clean Power Plan, the EPA ignores words in the Clean Air Act that limit its standard-setting authority to individual sources of emissions. Instead, the agency targets the entire electricity industry as an emissions source. No words in the Clean Air Act plausibly -- never mind reasonably -­invite the EPA to coerce the wholesale transformation of state electric grids with arbitrary reduction targets. 
The Clean Power Plan depends on states' bowing to the EPA by drawing up plans that make their power supplies less diverse and more expensive. Without state complicity, the EPA's ambitious carbon-reduction target is not achievable within the bounds of its legal authority and technical competence. 
The governors of Oklahoma, Mississippi, Wisconsin, Indiana, Texas and Louisiana have already done the calculations and decided that the cost of collaborating with the EPA will be much higher than declining to do so. Especially with the legal prospects of the Clean Power Plan growing dimmer, there's no reason for other governors to voluntarily turn the lights off on their economies. 
Mr. Quinn is president and chief executive of the National Mining Association. Mr. Glaser, a partner at Troutman Sanders LLP, represented the association before the Supreme Court in Michigan v. EPA. 
Credit: By Hal Quinn and Peter Glaser 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details 
Subject 
Electric utilities;  
Emissions control;  
Clean technology;  
Electric rates;  
Environmental regulations;  
Industrial plant emissions  
People  Obama, Barack  
Company / organization  Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS: 924110  
Classification  1540: Pollution control  
4310: Regulation  
8340: Electric, water & gas utilities  
9190: United States  
Title  States Should Shun the EPA's New Power Mandate  
Author  Quinn, Hal; Glaser, Peter  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.13  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Aug 3, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1700594993  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1700594993?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 226 of 376 


Business News: States Take Aim at Power-Plant Rules 
Smith, Rebecca; Harder, Amy.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]14 July 2015: B.2. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Business+News%3A+States+Take+Aim+at+Power­Plant+Rules&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2015-07­14&volume=&issue=&spage=B.2&au=Smith%2C+Rebecca%3BHarder%2C+Amy&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
State officials, power-utility representatives and special interest groups have held meetings in recent weeks at the White House's Office of Management and Budget to share concerns and praise for the new climate-change regulations, which are the cornerstone of President Barack Obama's climate agenda. 

Full Text 
State regulators are descending on Washington Tuesday to make last-minute pleas for changes in the Obama administration's sweeping new rules for power-plant emissions, which will determine the direction of utility investments for decades to come and could affect the price of electricity. 
California and several East Coast states want the Environmental Protection Agency to respect the steps they have already taken to cut carbon pollution in their regions and hold other states to higher standards by not easing proposed emission targets. 
"We want a strong rule," said Mary Nichols, chairman of the California Air Resources Board. "There are not quite as many viewpoints as states, but it's pretty close." 
Other states, including Tennessee, Ohio and Nevada, say the pollution targets put forth by the EPA are so onerous they threaten to close power plants and cost consumers substantially more to keep the lights on. 
At least five governors have threatened not to comply with the new rules, including those of Texas, Louisiana, Oklahoma, Indiana and Wisconsin. 
The EPA has received more than four million comments on what the Obama administration is calling its Clean Power Plan -- the most in the agency's history, according to spokesman Tom Reynolds. Once finalized in August, it is expected to face a barrage of legal challenges. In the meantime, some Republicans and coal-state Democrats have been pushing legislation to delay the rule's compliance deadlines until the litigation is complete. 
State officials, power-utility representatives and special interest groups have held meetings in recent weeks at the White House's Office of Management and Budget to share concerns and praise for the new climate-change regulations, which are the cornerstone of President Barack Obama's climate agenda. 
The plan is widely regarded as the most important environmental rule to touch the electric-power industry, and is expected to change how electricity is generated and consumed in the U.S. The goal of the emissions-reduction plan is to slash U.S. carbon-dioxide emissions 30% from 2005 levels by 2030. 
But achieving targets set forth under the draft rule will require huge changes to many companies' power-generation fleets. The most typical will be to cut power production from plants that burn coal, and switch to cleaner-burning natural-gas-fired power plants. Achieving ambitious carbon-reduction targets also requires new renewable power sources and deploying advanced technologies that boost the efficiency of electrical gear. 
People who have met with federal representatives say the meetings are short and give participants just enough time to summarize the chief points of written filings that often run hundreds, or even thousands, of pages. There's no way to know how many changes will be made to the draft rule, attendees say, because Obama administration officials aren't showing their cards. 
"They just look and listen and take notes," said Conrad Schneider of the Clean Air Task Force. "They resemble Easter Island statues." 
For some utility executives, a major sticking point is the pace of the required pollution reductions. Most states would have to achieve at least half the reduction by 2020. Many states say that deadline, five years away, is impossible to meet. 
States will have to develop action plans, and it can take three to four years to build new gas-fired power plants. If new natural-gas pipelines or big electric transmission lines are needed, the process of holding public hearings and building those lines can take up to a decade. 
Another point of contention concerns how nuclear power, which does not emit any carbon dioxide, gets counted under the new rules. Utilities want any of the 100 existing reactors that get license extensions to be counted as new power generation that helps states meet carbon-reduction goals. 
Nick Akins, chief executive of American Electric Power Co., said Kentucky is the only state of 11 that his company serves that hasn't raised major objections to the pollution rules. AEP relies on coal to fuel most of its generating capacity. 
In a meeting last week, Mr. Akins and other executives told federal officials they were comfortable with 2030 goals, but the interim targets in 2020 don't give states time to pivot to new electric-power sources. "It was such a dramatic shift in such a short period of time that they threw up their hands and said, 'We can't do it,'" he said. 
Kirk Johnson, senior vice president at the Rural Electric Cooperative Association, said his group's 900 members fear they might have to prematurely retire coal plants with $4 billion of debt on them. The utilities would have to pay off those liabilities, and then bear the higher cost of new, cleaner power plants on top of that. "It's a big darn deal for us," he said. 
Credit: By Rebecca Smith and Amy Harder 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Electric utilities;  
Carbon;  
Meetings;  
Natural gas;  
Industrial plant emissions;  
Nuclear power plants  
Location  California; United States--US  
People  Obama, Barack  
Company / organization  Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS: 924110;  
Name: Air Resources Board-California  
NAICS: 924110  
Title  Business News: States Take Aim at Power-Plant Rules  
Author  Smith, Rebecca; Harder, Amy  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.2  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Jul 14, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1695932703  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1695932703?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 227 of 376 


Business News -- CFO Journal: Catholic Investors Press Climate Concerns --- Pope's message spurs institutions to reassess holdings, push proposals tied to the environment 
Chasan, Emily; Murphy, Maxwell.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]10 July 2015: B.6. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Business+News+-­+CFO+Journal%3A+Catholic+Investors+Press+Climate+Concerns+--­+Pope%27s+message+spurs+institutions+to+reassess+holdings%2C+push+proposals+tied+to+the+environment&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2015­07-10&volume=&issue=&spage=B.6&au=Chasan%2C+Emily%3BMurphy%2C+Maxwell&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Another religious order, the Missionary Oblates of Mary Immaculate, asked Kraft to produce and release a "comprehensive" sustainability report "describing its environmental, social and governance performance and goals, including greenhouse-gas reduction goals." 

Full Text 
The pope's call to action on global warming is unleashing a new wave of shareholder activism by Roman Catholic investors. 
This spring, as Pope Francis prepared his 183-page encyclical calling for a phaseout of fossil fuels, several Catholic institutions in the U.S., including universities and religious orders, began taking steps to dump stocks with heavy exposure to coal and other greenhouse-gas-emitting energy sources. They also urged companies ranging from Bank of America Corp. and Kraft Foods Group Inc. to DuPont Co. to disclose more information about their carbon emissions and the 
environmental impact of their businesses. 
Catholics, who number more than one billion world-wide and account for the largest organized religion in the U.S., control an estimated $150 billion in assets, according to Daniel Nielsen, a director at Christian Brothers Investment Services, a Chicago investment-management firm. The encyclical, which calls global warming a major threat to life on Earth and urges "urgent and compelling" steps to halt it is "a wake-up call that climate change is a crisis," he 
said. 
The papal letter, titled "Laudato Si: On Care For Our Common Home," is an in-depth discussion of the church's teachings on the subject. It was published June 18, but the Vatican announced it more than a year in advance, and many Catholics were sympathetic with its goals. Sister Nora Nash, a nun with the Sisters of St. Francis, outside of Philadelphia, who serves as her order's director of corporate social responsibility, thinks the encyclical will help 
her keep up the pressure on companies in its portfolio for more environmental disclosures. 
"In the heart of the corporate world, we feel that we, too, can make a difference," she said. 
The nun met with Chevron Corp. representatives in mid-June to urge the company to release more information about the hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, it does in her state, 

and its impact on the region's water. 
"Every part of our area is being pipelined to death," she said. 
A Chevron spokesman said, "We value their input, as well as the input of other stockholders." 
At the largest 250 U.S. companies, Catholic groups have submitted 12 environment-related shareholder proposals this year, up from seven in 2014, according to 

Proxymonitor.org, a website sponsored by the Manhattan Institute's Center for Legal Policy, a public-policy research group. 
The movement has yet to produce major environmental policy changes at American companies, or to evolve into a coordinated campaign, but it is chipping away at the margins. 
Among this year's proposals, religious investors asked companies to produce reports on sustainability and climate-change risk, to create targets for greenhouse-gas emissions, 

or appoint a director with environmental expertise. 
The Sisters of the Holy Names of Jesus and Mary, who operate mostly in the U.S. and Canada, asked Bank of America in May for a report on climate change. 
The bank opposed the request, saying in a proxy filing that a report detailing emissions and risk across all of its lending, investing and financing activities would "require 

considerable resources without conveying useful information." It said it already discloses greenhouse-gas emissions from its U.S. electric utility portfolio, and pointed to other reports, policies and procedures to address climate-change risk. 
A Bank of America spokeswoman declined to comment. 
Another religious order, the Missionary Oblates of Mary Immaculate, asked Kraft to produce and release a "comprehensive" sustainability report "describing its environmental, 
social and governance performance and goals, including greenhouse-gas reduction goals." 

At shareholder meetings in late May, the Sisters of St. Dominic of Caldwell asked Chevron and Exxon Mobil Corp. to provide better information on carbon emissions. That same month, another New Jersey-based order, the Sisters of Charity of St. Elizabeth, asked fellow shareholders of chemicals maker DuPont to support a resolution that the company monitor the herbicide farmers used with its crop seeds. 
The companies opposed these proposals, saying in their proxies that the information was available elsewhere, or that its publication wouldn't be a good use of corporate resources. Holders of between 5% and 30% of the companies' shares outstanding voted in favor of the measures. 
DuPont declined to comment beyond its filings. Kraft didn't respond to requests for comment. Exxon sent representatives to meet with Vatican officials in May to discuss global warming, a spokesman said. 
Catholic investors have increased their environmental efforts in corporate boardrooms since late last year, when the pope indicated he would release the encyclical ahead of United Nations climate talks in Paris set for late 2015. 
"There is more pressure on Catholic investors to divest fossil fuels," said Father Michael Crosby, whose religious community in Milwaukee holds about $2,000 in Exxon shares. "You have to either get out, or do something to get these companies to diversify their business models." 
At Exxon's annual meeting in May, he asked Chief Executive Rex Tillerson "to get an expert on the board" to advise the company on renewable energy. 
Renewable energy "only survives on the backs of enormous government mandates that are not sustainable," the CEO responded. "We on purpose choose not to lose money." 
Mercy Investment Services, the investment arm of the Sisters of Mercy, said it raised social issues at more than 140 companies this year, either directly or through shareholder resolutions. It said about a third of these efforts focused on environmental matters. 
Under guidelines from the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, Catholic institutions traditionally avoid companies that, among other things, produce tobacco or weapons of mass destruction or do stem-cell research. 
As many as 30% of public companies already fail the most rigorous application of these standards, said Jason Baron, who helps clients of Bank of America's U.S. Trust unit build portfolios that meet their individual social responsibility standards. Equally rigorous screening for carbon emissions would put 12% to 15% of more of them off limits. 
At a June 5 meeting in Dublin, the managers of the Oblate International Pastoral Investment Trust, which oversee $400 million in assets for more than 200 Catholic organizations, voted not to invest in resources or utility companies heavily involved in thermal coal and oil sands. 
The group may expand its blacklist in coming months, said Father Seamus Finn, the trust's head of global advocacy work. 
After the encyclical's release, Greg McIntire, portfolio manager for the SEI Catholic Values Funds, which oversee $170 million in assets in Pennsylvania, began planning to factor a company's carbon footprint into its investment choices for clients. 
Georgetown University, one of 225 U.S.-based Catholic colleges and universities, with a $1.4 billion asset pool as of June 2014, said last month that it would no longer invest in coal companies. 
American Coal Council President Betsy Monseu said institutions decide to sell off shares of coal companies for a variety of reasons. 
Credit: By Emily Chasan and Maxwell Murphy 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Emissions; 

Global warming; 
Religion; 

Christianity; 

Social responsibility; 

Nuns; 

Hydraulic fracturing; 
Climate change 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Francis (Pope) 
Company / organization 	Name: Christian Brothers Investment Services 

NAICS: 523930 


Classification 	9180: International 

3400: Investment analysis & personal finance 


Title 	Business News -- CFO Journal: Catholic Investors Press Climate Concerns --- Pope's message 
spurs institutions to reassess holdings, push proposals tied to the environment 

Author 	Chasan, Emily; Murphy, Maxwell 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	B.6 
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Jul 10, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1695122587  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1695122587?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 228 of 376 


World News: Pope's Ecological Line Faces Resistance in Andes 
Otis, John; Rocca, Francis X.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]08 July 2015: A.12. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=World+News%3A+Pope%27s+Ecological+Line+Faces+Resistance+in+A 07-08&volume=&issue=&spage=A.12&au=Otis%2C+John%3BRocca%2C+Francis+X&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
A few hours after Pope Francis released his landmark encyclical urging radical action to curb environmental degradation last month, Bolivian President Evo Morales warned that ecological groups opposed to new rules opening up Bolivia's forest and indigenous reserves to natural-gas exploration could face expulsion. 

Full Text 
QUITO, Ecuador -- Pope Francis faced a delicate mission in his first major speech on global warming on Tuesday: how to balance his advocacy for a new model of development 
with a poor region's yearning to exploit its natural resources. 
The pontiff, on the first leg of a three-country Andean trip, emphasized in a speech the themes of his papal encyclical blaming global warming on human activity, saying 
mankind must take steps to reverse it. 

"The human environment and the natural environment deteriorate together," the pope, who took his name from St. Francis of Assisi, the patron saint of ecology, told students at 

Catholic University. "We cannot adequately combat environmental degradation unless we attend to causes related to human and social degradation." 
In a nod to the countries he is visiting -- Ecuador, Bolivia and Paraguay, all with strong indigenous traditions where the Pachamama, or Mother Earth, is central to life -- the 
pope said "we can no longer turn our backs on reality, on our brothers and sisters, on Mother Earth." 

This spine of the Andes illustrates the complexity of green politics the pope faces. It is rich in resources, from oil and coal to natural gas and copper that have helped 

governments here pull millions from poverty partly by attracting development by major corporations. 
"This has only happened because the mining and energy sectors have generated wealth that the country needed to activate the economy," said Carlos Galvez, president of 
Peru's National Mining, Oil and Energy Society, a private-sector industry group. "If we want to take a religious point of view, not developing it would be a sin." 

Here in Ecuador, oil money bankrolled roads, schools and housing that, for much of President Rafael Correa's eight-year presidency fueled his approval ratings and helped lift an estimated 1.5 million people out of poverty, official statistics show. 
"We don't have another way," Mr. Correa, who calls his country "a paradise," said in a 2013 newspaper interview. "We need this money to overcome poverty." 
A few hours after Pope Francis released his landmark encyclical urging radical action to curb environmental degradation last month, Bolivian President Evo Morales warned that 
ecological groups opposed to new rules opening up Bolivia's forest and indigenous reserves to natural-gas exploration could face expulsion. 

"They will leave Bolivia," Mr. Morales declared last month. "We don't need foreign institutions to come here and cause damage." 

The presidents of both Ecuador and Bolivia have praised the pope's encyclical and portrayed themselves as committed environmentalists in a region increasingly plagued by 
melting glaciers, deforestation, droughts and flooding. 
But they also have publicly blamed the U.S. and Western industrialized countries for global warming and resent the notion that South America must put the brakes on its own 

progress in the name of saving the planet -- underscoring limits to the power of the pope on a complex issue. 
"We can't be park rangers for the industrialized world," Mr. Morales, an Aymara Indian, recently said. 
In Bolivia, where the pope arrives on Wednesday, Mr. Morales issued a decree in May allowing for the drilling of oil and gas in all 22 of the country's forest reserves. 
Here in Ecuador, known for its Andean peaks and the Galapagos Islands made famous by Charles Darwin, Mr. Correa enshrined "the rights of nature" in the constitution. 
Still, petroleum accounts for half of export income for this OPEC member. So when donations for the Yasuni project fell far short of the $3.6 billion goal, Mr. Correa said in 2013 

that the park, one of the most ecologically diverse spots on earth and home to numerous Indian tribes, would be opened for oil drilling. 
Credit: By John Otis and Francis X. Rocca 

(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Global warming; 
Poverty; 

Natural gas;  
Environmental protection  
Location  Bolivia; Ecuador  
People  Francis (Pope)  
Title  World News: Pope's Ecological Line Faces Resistance in Andes  
Author  Otis, John; Rocca, Francis X  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.12  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Jul 8, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1694611550  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1694611550?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 229 of 376 


Obama's Renewable-Energy Fantasy 
Darwall, Rupert.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]06 July 2015: A.13. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Obama%27s+Renewable­Energy+Fantasy&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2015-07­06&volume=&issue=&spage=A.13&au=Darwall%2C+Rupert&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
On June 30, one day after the Supreme Court struck down the Environmental Protection Agency's regulation of mercury emissions from power plants, President Obama committed the United States to the goal of generating 20% of its electricity from renewable sources by 2030. The EPA ran afoul of the law by failing to conduct a cost-benefit analysis before it acted to reduce mercury emissions from coal-power plants. 

Full Text 
On June 30, one day after the Supreme Court struck down the Environmental Protection Agency's regulation of mercury emissions from power plants, President Obama committed the United States to the goal of generating 20% of its electricity from renewable sources by 2030. This would nearly triple the amount of wind- and solar-generated electricity on the national grid. 
The EPA ran afoul of the law by failing to conduct a cost-benefit analysis before it acted to reduce mercury emissions from coal-power plants. There is no objective cost-benefit analysis that could justify the president's target for renewable energy. 
Recently Bill Gates explained in an interview with the Financial Times why current renewables are dead-end technologies. They are unreliable. Battery storage is inadequate. Wind and solar output depends on the weather. The cost of decarbonization using today's technology is "beyond astronomical," Mr. Gates concluded. 
Google engineers came to a similar conclusion last year. After seven years of investigation, they found no way to get the cost of renewables competitive with coal. "Unfortunately," the engineers reported, "most of today's clean generation sources can't provide power that is both distributed and dispatchable" -- that is, electricity that can be ramped up and down quickly. "Solar panels, for example, can be put on every rooftop, but can't provide power if the sun isn't shining." 
If Mr. Obama gets his way, the U.S. will go down the rocky road traveled by the European Union. In 2007 the EU adopted the target of deriving 20% of its energy consumption from renewables by 2020. Europe is therefore around a decade ahead of the U.S. in meeting a more challenging target -- the EU's 20% is of total energy, not just electricity. To see what the U.S. might look like, Europe is a good place to start. 
Germany passed its first renewable law in 1991 and already has spent $351 billion (400 billion euros) on its so-called Energy Transition. The German environment minister has estimated a cost of up to $877 billion (1 trillion euros) by the end of the 2030s. With an economy nearly five times as large as Germany's and generating nearly seven times the amount of electricity (but a less demanding renewables target), this suggests the cost of meeting Mr. Obama's pledge is of the order of $2 trillion. 
There are other, indirect costs to consider. Germany is the world's second largest exporter of merchandise, behind China and ahead of the U.S. But high and rising energy costs are driving German companies to locate new capacity overseas. 
BASF, which operates the world's largest integrated chemical facility, is shifting more production to America. "With such a huge difference in energy prices, the decision is clear that the money is now going there," a BASF executive told a meeting of EU industry ministers last year. BASF has opened plants in Malaysia as well as Louisiana. 
Advocates of renewable energy such as Deutsche Bank anticipate that electricity from solar panels will cost the same as electricity from the grid (so-called grid parity) in the not-too-distant future. But none suggest that solar can do so now without subsidies. And as Germany, Britain and other European countries are finding out, overt subsidies are only one part of the cost of renewables. 
Most damaging is the effect of renewable mandates on the power stations necessary to ensure the stability of the electric grid and balance supply and demand. Even a modest proportion of wind- and solar-generated electricity prevents gas- and coal-powered stations from recovering their fixed costs. This has led to the proposed shuttering of Irsching in Bavaria, one of Germany's newest and most efficient gas-fired plants. So unless conventional capacity also is subsidized, at some point the lights will start going out. European politicians have no answer to a problem they created, and it's a safe bet the EPA doesn't either. 
One unintended consequence of the fracking boom is the displacement of coal by natural gas -- a cheaper and more effective way to cut carbon-dioxide emissions. A 2014 Brookings Institution study estimated that replacing coal with modern combined-cycle gas turbines cuts 2.6 times more carbon-dioxide emissions than using wind does, and cuts four times as many emissions as solar. 
That's because generating electricity with low-energy density, weather-dependent technology is very inefficient. It requires far more plant and equipment and land to harvest an equivalent amount of power than fossil fuels. And that's not counting the investment in fossil-fuel capacity to provide on-demand power when the wind isn't blowing or the sun doesn't shine. 
There is no rational justification for policies favoring renewables. In 1972 environmentalist guru E.F. Schumacher wrote "Small Is Beautiful," taking as his guide what he called Buddhist economics, which he'd discovered in Burma. A civilization built on renewable resources, he claimed, was superior to one built on nonrenewable resources. "The former bears the sign of life," Schumacher wrote, "while the latter bears the sign of death." 
Mr. Obama's renewable target is a triumph for Shumacher's Buddhist economics -- which amounts to being poor and staying poor. It does not produce jobs, growth or prosperity. 
Mr. Darwall is the author of "The Age of Global Warming: A History" (Quartet, 2013). 
(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: Renewable-Energy Mandates Should Be Nonpartisan" -- WSJ July 13, 2015) Credit: By Rupert Darwall 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Environmental protection;  
Alternative energy;  
Benefit cost analysis;  
Renewable resources;  
Energy consumption  
Location  United States--US  
Company / organization  Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS: 924110  
Title  Obama's Renewable-Energy Fantasy  
Author  Darwall, Rupert  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.13  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Jul 6, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1693595687  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1693595687?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 230 of 376 


Realistic Goals for the Paris Climate Conference 
Bloomberg, Michael R.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]29 June 2015: A.13. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Realistic+Goals+for+the+Paris+Climate+Conference&title=Wall+Stre 06-29&volume=&issue=&spage=A.13&au=Bloomberg%2C+Michael+R&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
[...]governments increasingly understand that clean air is vital to a healthy economy. [...]as technology advances the economics of clean energy have improved dramatically. 

Full Text 
There is a good chance that in five months the United Nations' conference on climate change in Paris will set the world on a path to taming global greenhouse gas emissions -- a topic the U.N. will discuss on Monday. But the definition of success in Paris has been widely misunderstood, and as a result there is a risk that success may be viewed as failure. 
Let's be clear what won't result from the Paris conference: an all-encompassing agreement akin to the 1987 Montreal Protocol, which phased out production of chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) and other substances that deplete the ozone layer. CFCs were a discrete problem and had limited uses, so phasing them out was relatively painless. 
Climate pollutants, on the other hand, are everywhere. They are a waste product of nearly every aspect of modern life, and they are not limited to carbon; methane, soot and nitrous oxide all contribute to rising temperatures. No single global tax or regulatory scheme will solve this problem, even if one were politically feasible, which it isn't. 
What, then, would constitute success in Paris? 
Sometime in the latter half of this century, the global economy will have to limit its greenhouse gas emissions to the amount that can be soaked up through regenerating forests, grasslands and other natural forms. That means keeping change in global temperatures to about 2 degrees Celsius. Paris must accelerate progress toward that 2-degree goal, but it is important to remember: The world is not going to solve this problem in one big negotiating session. Paris is a progress report, not a final exam. 
The Paris conference has already proven successful in one respect: It has pushed heads of state to prioritize climate action. Europe has raised its emissions reduction target to 40% from 30%; the U.S. has gone to 28% from 17%. China has committed to cap its emissions by 2030. Mexico became the first big emerging economy to set an ambitious reduction goal, 25%. And Ethiopia, one of the world's poorest nations, offered to slash its emissions trajectory by 64%. 
There are three reasons nations are making these commitments. First, their citizens are demanding it. Whether they live in a capitalist or communist society, people want to breathe clean air. They know that air fouled with carbon pollution causes death and disease, and they are pressuring governments to act. 
Second, governments increasingly understand that clean air is vital to a healthy economy. A city with clean air has a significant competitive advantage over one with dirty air, because people prefer to live there and companies find it easier to attract talented workers. This is why Beijing is closing its four major coal-fired power plants. 
Third, as technology advances the economics of clean energy have improved dramatically. The price of solar panels, wind turbines, batteries, LED lighting and electric vehicles has plummeted, sometimes more than 20% in a year. 
The world is building more renewable electric power than it is coal, natural gas and oil put together, because low-carbon technologies are rapidly becoming cheaper than fossil-fuel competitors. Entire countries -- Portugal and Denmark -- are largely powered with clean electrons. In 2015 China will add new solar capacity twice as great as America's solar capacity. And within 15 years China's renewable generation will be bigger than the entire U.S. grid. 
The trend is moving in the right direction -- and the Paris conference needs to turbocharge it. How? 
For starters, nations -- particularly less ambitious ones like Canada, Japan and Russia -- should strengthen their commitments. Doing so is less difficult than is widely believed, if nations empower cities and businesses to take action. Mayors and CEOs are already taking the lead in many places, because they understand that a low-carbon future benefits not only public health but also economic growth. 
For instance, Melbourne is ahead of Australia in making major investments in carbon reduction. California and Ontario are both far ahead of their national governments. This month, six oil industry CEOs wrote an open letter to the United Nations calling for a global price on carbon. In Paris, business leaders, mayors and other leaders need to be welcomed to the table. 
Paris must also accelerate the trend toward clean energy by expanding the developing world's access to technology and finance. Many emerging economies have indicated that they will deepen and quicken emissions cuts if these two issues are addressed. The fact is, capital markets in the developing world are not deep and liquid enough to meet the demand for clean-energy projects. New financial mechanisms -- such as currency hedging programs and risk pools for clean-energy loans -- are needed to attract global capital. 
Finally, success in Paris requires nations to agree that commitments should be revised every five years as technology advances. This will send an important signal to the private sector: Government policies will increasingly prioritize low-carbon development, which will spur greater investment in the technologies that will drive it. 
The Paris conference has the potential to be a great success, but only if measured by how much it speeds up progress, rather than whether we pass a finish line that is not yet within reach. 
Mr. Bloomberg is the former mayor of New York and founder of Bloomberg L.P. 
(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: Realistic Climate Goals, More Jobs and Lower Taxes" -- WSJ July 9, 2015) Credit: By Michael R. Bloomberg 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Environmental protection;  
Industrial plant emissions;  
Coal-fired power plants;  
Greenhouse gases;  
Clean technology;  
Summit conferences;  
Emissions control;  
Climate change  
Location  Paris France  
Company / organization  Name: United Nations--UN  
NAICS: 928120  
Classification  1540: Pollution control  
9180: International  
Title  Realistic Goals for the Paris Climate Conference  
Author  Bloomberg, Michael R  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.13  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Jun 29, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1691565347  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1691565347?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  


document 231 of 376 


Delivering a Greener Fleet of Trucks 
Nooyi, Indra K; Krupp, Fred.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]20 June 2015: A.11. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Delivering+a+Greener+Fleet+of+Trucks&title=Wall+Street+Journal& 06-20&volume=&issue=&spage=A.11&au=Nooyi%2C+Indra+K%3BKrupp%2C+Fred&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
[...]are partnerships, like the Environmental Protection Agency's SmartWay program, that accelerate the availability and adoption of fuel-saving technologies and operational practices. 

Full Text 
When you walk down the aisles of a supermarket, you probably don't stop to consider how the array of products made it to the shelves. But as the heads of two organizations deeply involved in supply chain logistics -- PepsiCo and the Environmental Defense Fund -- we do think about the U.S. distribution system and the potential environmental impact of the delivery fleets that keep stores well-stocked. And we see an enormous opportunity on the horizon. 
Trucks are the engines of the nation's economy. They move 70% of freight in the U.S. While fuel economy in cars has improved dramatically over the past few decades, this isn't the case with heavy trucks, which average 6.4 miles per gallon -- an improvement of just 0.9 mpg over the past 45 years. Each year, America's truck fleets emit the same amount of carbon dioxide as 130 coal electricity plants, according to government data. 
To meet changing consumer demands, address climate change and thrive in today's economy, a comprehensive approach to fleet efficiency is required. Cleaner fuels, hybrid and electric vehicles, driver training and GPS technology are all part of this approach. So are partnerships, like the Environmental Protection Agency's SmartWay program, that accelerate the availability and adoption of fuel-saving technologies and operational practices. 
Now comes a fresh opportunity to make the delivery fleet more efficient. On Friday the Obama administration proposed new fuel-economy and greenhouse-gas standards for medium- and heavy-duty trucks. Once finalized, these standards will make a big dent in fuel use and climate pollution, while cutting costs. The government estimates that over the life of the vehicles covered, the rules will prevent one billion tons of greenhouse gas emissions, reduce oil use by 1.8 billion barrels, and achieve fuel savings of $170 billion. 
These new EPA and Transportation Department standards can help drive innovation as well. It is time for government and business to work together to meet growing demand for freight services without increasing fuel consumption and thus emissions. Strong federal standards will create an incentive for truck manufacturers to innovate and develop more fuel-efficient vehicles, so the trucks coming on the road in the years ahead will use a lot less fuel than today's vehicles. 
A comprehensive approach to fleet management also makes good business sense. PepsiCo, which has a U.S. fleet of approximately 35,000 vehicles, has long embraced fuel-saving technologies that have been good for business and the environment. From 2008 to 2014, PepsiCo's Frito-Lay North America business reduced its diesel fuel usage by 23%, while growing net revenue about 16%, to $14.5 billion from $12.5 billion. 
PepsiCo and the Environmental Defense Fund urge other business and environmental leaders to join us in supporting strong federal standards. Better fuel economy and higher efficiency help companies compete; less money spent on fuel means more to invest in products, processes, people and communities. 
Five years ago, truck makers, fleets, labor unions and environmentalists made a unified call for the first ever fuel standards for medium- and heavy-duty trucks. Those standards took effect in 2014, immediately increasing efficiency by 10%, with more gains due in 2017. The market has embraced these standards; 2014 was a record year for new truck sales because efficient trucks save companies money. Now it's time to build on this solid foundation. Strong new truck fuel-economy standards will keep America moving in the right direction. 
Ms. Nooyi is the chairman and CEO of PepsiCo. Mr. Krupp is the president of the Environmental Defense Fund. 
(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: There Is Little Good Reason for New Truck Standards" -- WSJ June 25, 2015) 
Credit: By Indra K. Nooyi and Fred Krupp 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Environmental protection; 
Automobile industry; 

Energy efficiency; 
Trucks; 

Emissions 


Location 	United States--US 
People  Obama, Barack  
Company / organization  Name:  Environmental Defense Fund  
NAICS:  813312, 541720;  
Name:  Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS:  924110  

Title  Delivering a Greener Fleet of Trucks  
Author  Nooyi, Indra K; Krupp, Fred  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.11  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Jun 20, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1689971555  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1689971555?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 232 of 376 


The Pope's Solution for Warming: Pray 
Jenkins, Holman W, Jr.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]20 June 2015: A.13. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=The+Pope%27s+Solution+for+Warming%3A+Pray&title=Wall+Stree 06-20&volume=&issue=&spage=A.13&au=Jenkins%2C+Holman+W%2C+Jr&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
[...]he may be wrong about technology; it's not inconceivable that nano batteries might emerge in the coming decades that will render the whole debate moot, and may even cause new worries about the consequences of a sudden drop in human carbon-dioxide output. 

Full Text 
With unintended sacrilege one news-service headline this week credited the pope with "finding religion on climate change." 
Maybe it would be truer to say Pope Francis has tried to annex one of the newer religions, that of global warming, to Catholic liturgy, though this would also paint a sorry picture of his political judgment. For if anything has been demonstrated over the past three decades, it's that moral hectoring of voters does not produce notable progress on this vexing issue. 
And voters are not stupid in this regard. As Georgia Tech climatologist Judith Curry has explained: "One argument that President Obama hasn't tried to make explicitly is that the U.S. commitments to emissions reductions will actually slow down warming in a meaningful way. If you believe the climate models, the U.S. emissions reductions would reduce the warming by a fairly trivial amount, that would get lost among the natural variability of climate." 
That's right, Mr. Obama, who has referred to the "urgent and growing threat of a changing climate," has committed the U.S. to a program of costs without benefits. 
His holiness (the pope, I mean) acknowledges that "different approaches and lines of thought have emerged regarding this situation and its possible solutions. At one extreme, we find those who doggedly uphold the myth of progress and tell us that ecological problems will solve themselves simply with the application of new technology and without any need for ethical considerations or deep change. At the other extreme are those who view men and women and all their interventions as no more than a threat, jeopardizing the global ecosystem, and consequently the presence of human beings on the planet should be reduced and all forms of intervention prohibited." 
In fact, he may be wrong about technology; it's not inconceivable that nano batteries might emerge in the coming decades that will render the whole debate moot, and may even cause new worries about the consequences of a sudden drop in human carbon-dioxide output. 
Not that the pope fails to bless battery research, which this column has also blessed. But he expresses a general disdain for technology that seems a mite confounded with his hope that people in the future will be less materialistic, more concerned with spiritual matters, a thing a pope is always obliged to hope. 
More intriguing was his swipe at the humanity haters, the gestalt of certain parts of the environmental movement and closely allied with its temptation toward totalitarianism, not to mention its habit of extreme self-righteousness, which seems to be the main compensation that draws many to the global-warming cause. 
To the real problem he offers no answer except for humans to improve themselves. Anything that the political process spits out in response to uncertain climate fears will be more effective in redistributing resources among lobbying groups than in doing anything about climate. 
Meanwhile, the pope (like too many climate scientists) is reluctant to acknowledge that things will change by themselves in ways profoundly affecting the climate puzzle. Sayeth the former Cardinal Bergoglio, "Humanity is called to become aware of the need to change styles of life, of production and consumption," and to make "investments in the means of production and transport which consume less energy and require a smaller amount of raw material." 
But changing lifestyles and the means of production and militating against inefficiency is what the global economy, about which he seems so ambivalent (at best), does every livelong day. Last year the 20 biggest economies produced 3.3% growth with zero increase in emissions over 2013. One reason was American fracking. Another reason was China's nascent shift from an export-oriented, goods-producing economy to one more focused on services and domestic consumption. 
Not contributing were Europe's massive subsidies to renewables, perversely accompanied by a 16% increase in coal use over the past five years, partly to compensate for the intermittency of sun and wind. 
This doesn't mean anything we do on purpose must necessarily be meaningless or self-defeating. A carbon tax allied to pro-growth tax reform, if politicians could uncorruptly produce such a thing, might be defended on cost-benefit grounds. But the biggest influence on the climate puzzle over the next 100 years won't come from policy "breakthroughs." It won't come (sadly) because politicians and voters heard the pope's message and were spiritually transformed. 
The biggest impact, by default and not because we ordained it, will come from technological change and a competitive economy's search for efficiency, to which this anti-economic pope gives so little credit. 
And a good thing too, since the church has spent 2,000 years trying to treat the ills of human nature and yet those ills persist. 
Credit: By Holman W. Jenkins, Jr. 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Climate change;  
Emissions;  
Global warming  
Location  United States--US  
People  Francis (Pope)  
Title  The Pope's Solution for Warming: Pray  
Author  Jenkins, Holman W, Jr  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.13  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Jun 20, 2015  
column  Business World  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1689971487  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1689971487?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 233 of 376 


Notable & Quotable 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]12 June 2015: A.13. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Notable+%26amp%3B+Quotable&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=0099 06-12&volume=&issue=&spage=A.13&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
Environment editor John Vidal writing in the Guardian (U.K.), June 8: 
Five of the world's seven richest countries have increased their coal use in the last five years despite demanding that poor countries slash their carbon emissions to avoid catastrophic climate change, new research shows. 
Britain, Germany, Italy, Japan and France together burned 16% more coal in 2013 than 2009 and are planning to further increase construction of coal-fired power stations. Only the US and Canada of the G7 countries meeting on Monday in Berlin have reduced coal consumption since the Copenhagen climate summit in 2009. 
The US has reduced its coal consumption by 8% largely because of fracking for shale gas. Overall, the G7 countries reduced coal consumption by less than 1% between 2009­2013, the Oxfam research shows. 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject Notable & quotable (wsj) 
People Vidal, John 
Title Notable & Quotable 
Author Anonymous 
Publication title Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages A.13 
Publication year 2015 
Publication date Jun 12, 2015 
Publisher Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 00999660 
Source type Newspapers 
Language of publication English 
Document type  Feature  
ProQuest document ID  1687493127  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1687493127?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 234 of 376 


EPA Consulted Many to Develop Its Clean Power Plan 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]12 June 2015: A.12. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=EPA+Consulted+Many+to+Develop+Its+Clean+Power+Plan&title=Wall+ 06-12&volume=&issue=&spage=A.12&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Regarding Benjamin Zycher's "The EPA's 'Clean Power' Mess" (op-ed, June 8): The EPA's Clean Power Plan proposal was informed by unprecedented engagement with states, utilities, stakeholders and the public. Because of this input and the Clean Air Act's clear direction on the proper roles for the EPA and the states, the CPP is built on actions that states and utilities are already undertaking. 

Full Text 
Regarding Benjamin Zycher's "The EPA's 'Clean Power' Mess" (op-ed, June 8): The EPA's Clean Power Plan proposal was informed by unprecedented engagement with states, utilities, stakeholders and the public. Because of this input and the Clean Air Act's clear direction on the proper roles for the EPA and the states, the CPP is built on actions that states and utilities are already undertaking. 
As we work to release the final CPP this summer, we are paying particular attention to ensuring that the flexibility the proposal promised is delivered to states and utilities. We 
are confident that it will because of our sustained outreach and the 4.3 million public comments we received. 
Ensuring that the final CPP supports our electricity system's ability to deliver reliable -- and affordable -- energy has been a top priority all along. That's why we are working 
closely with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and welcome its suggestions. 

The CPP represents a clear choice not to double down on the status quo of aging, inefficient and polluting infrastructure, as the author would have us do, but to capitalize on the 

innovations already under way in a dynamic, interconnected and rapidly advancing power sector for the benefit of our communities and our economy. 
Over the past 45 years, the EPA's implementation of the Clean Air Act has delivered deep cuts in harmful pollution from the power sector, preventing hundreds of thousands of 
illnesses and premature deaths, all while the economy has grown and American families have enjoyed affordable and reliable electricity. The CPP will show we can do it again. 

Janet McCabe Acting Assistant Administrator for the Office of Air and Radiation EPA Washington 
I disagree with Mr. Zycher's statement that "there are good reasons to doubt that the EPA understands how a modern power system works." I think it understands this subject very well. It just doesn't care because the order from the top is to get rid of coal as a source of power in this country. In this administration, global warming supersedes a lot of economics. 
Steven Schoenfeldt 
Grand Rapids, Mich. 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Environmental regulations 
Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 

NAICS: 924110; 

Name: Federal Energy Regulatory Commission--FERC NAICS: 926110, 926130 
Title 	EPA Consulted Many to Develop Its Clean Power Plan 
Author  Anonymous  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.12  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Jun 12, 2015  
Section  Letters to the Editor  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1687492733  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1687492733?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 235 of 376 


Business News: Big Oil Assails Coal Ahead of Climate Talks 
Kent, Sarah; Landauro, Inti.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]03 June 2015: B.3. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Business+News%3A+Big+Oil+Assails+Coal+Ahead+of+Climate+Talks& 06-03&volume=&issue=&spage=B.3&au=Kent%2C+Sarah%3BLandauro%2C+Inti&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
According to BP's World Energy Outlook, coal and gas are forecast in 2035 to each provide roughly the same amount of the world's energy -- just over 25%. 

Full Text 
PARIS -- Europe's largest oil companies on Tuesday came out forcefully against coal, taking aim at a competing fossil fuel as they push cleaner-burning natural gas ahead of climate-change talks. 
Executives from Royal Dutch Shell PLC, BP PLC, Total SA and others told industry officials at a conference that their increased production of gas could help reduce carbon emissions and lessen the world's reliance on coal for heating homes and creating electricity. Coal, they said, is a pollutant that sets back environmental efforts. 
"Together with renewable energies it is important to promote the use of gas to replace coal," Total Chief Executive Patrick Pouyanne said. "It would contribute at a low cost to meet carbon-emissions targets." 
The message was delivered at the World Gas Conference in Paris six months before United Nations climate-change talks that could result in an agreement to curb carbon emissions and limit global warning. 
Shell, BP and other big European oil companies sent a joint letter to the U.N. this week calling for measures to push up the cost of burning coal, which remains fairly cheap. The companies suggest governments could either tax carbon emissions directly or reduce the supply of carbon-emission credits, required to offset emissions, to make those credits pricier on the secondary market. 
The lobbying effort comes as gas becomes a bigger revenue source for top oil companies. 
For instance Shell now produces more gas than crude oil and the Anglo-Dutch company is set to solidify its position on top of the liquefied-natural-gas market with its $70 billion deal to buy U.K. gas company BG Group PLC, which is expected to close next year. Approximately half of BP's production is natural gas and this could increase to 60% by the end of the decade, according to CEO Bob Dudley. 
The coal industry has defended the fossil fuel's role in the energy mix, with backers saying that natural gas also emits greenhouse gases and that advanced technologies can sharply reduce carbon emissions from coal-fired power plants. 
"It's flawed to think that you'll reach a solution to climate change without talking about low-emission technology for coal," Mick Buffier, chairman of the World Coal Association and an executive at Glencore PLC's coal unit, said in an interview in London on Tuesday. Mr. Buffier said new technology for coal-fired power plants can cut carbon emissions more than 30%. 
He said China and India, which consume most of the world's coal, will continue to rely on it for power generation for decades. "The reality is that coal will continue to be used, particularly in developing countries," he said. He recommends that governments and development banks help fund low-emission technology for coal-fired power plants. 
Long the world's dominant source of energy, coal will likely play a role for the foreseeable future. According to BP's World Energy Outlook, coal and gas are forecast in 2035 to each provide roughly the same amount of the world's energy -- just over 25%. Renewable-energy sources will increase but still be less than 10% by 2035, according to BP's annual tome of energy-industry forecasts. 
Natural gas is still a fossil fuel, and burning it produces greenhouse gases blamed for climate change -- though much less of it, according to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. 
The attack on coal comes as oil companies are stepping up their involvement in the climate-change debate before the U.N. summit later this year. The international gathering is intended to seal a deal that would ensure man-made global warming is limited to two degrees Celsius above preindustrial levels, but governments remain far apart on how to achieve this. 
Environmental groups increasingly question whether all the resources that have been discovered can be burned if the world is to meet its climate-change goals. In response, the oil industry has begun acknowledging the issues presented by climate change, while also saying investment in fossil fuels must be made to meet the world's growing energy needs. 
Shell Chief Executive Ben van Beurden is pushing for the industry to speak with a common voice on the measures it believes are necessary to encourage a shift to lower-carbon energy sources. The coalition of European energy companies on carbon pricing is one aspect. Mr. van Beurden also wants a broader coalition that includes utilities, academics, technology companies and others. 
Scott Patterson contributed to this article. 
Credit: By Sarah Kent and Inti Landauro 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Emissions; Natural gas; Environmental protection; Fossil fuels; Coal-fired power plants; Energy policy; Petroleum industry  
Location  Europe  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  United Nations--UN 928120;  
Name: NAICS:  Royal Dutch Shell PLC 324110, 213112, 221210;  
Name: NAICS:  Total SA 447190, 324110, 211111;  
Name: NAICS:  BG Group PLC 486210, 211111, 221210  
Classification  9180: International 8510: Petroleum industry 8500: Extractive industries  
Title  Business News: Big Oil Assails Coal Ahead of Climate Talks  
Author  Kent, Sarah; Landauro, Inti  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.3  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Jun 3, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1685136105  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1685136105?accountid=14902  

Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 236 of 376 


Business News: Big Oil Grows More Vocal on Climate 
Spindle, Bill; Rocca, Francis X.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]26 May 2015: B.3. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Business+News%3A+Big+Oil+Grows+More+Vocal+on+Climate&title=W 05-26&volume=&issue=&spage=B.3&au=Spindle%2C+Bill%3BRocca%2C+Francis+X&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
[...]it won't be solved by diplomacy only, but by private players, economic players like us." 

Full Text 
Oil companies are ratcheting up their involvement in the debate over climate change as governments, activists, churches and some big investors gear up for a global summit on the issue at the end of the year in Paris. 
The stated goal of the summit is to keep manmade warming limited to two degrees Celsius above preindustrial levels, but governments remain far apart on how to achieve it. 
Meeting such a goal will require far-reaching changes in energy-consumption patterns and likely efforts to put a cost on carbon use, many experts say. Activists have long focused much of their effort on trying to rein in the use of resource companies' bread and butter: carbon-emitting fossil fuels. 
Pope Francis is planning to weigh in on the environment in an encyclical -- a letter intended to develop and explain Catholic teaching -- due within the next few weeks, which has made Rome one of the focal points in the global-warming debate. Exxon Mobil Corp. recently dispatched one of its senior lobbyists and a planning executive to Rome in an attempt to brief the Vatican on its outlook for energy markets. 
For years, shareholder activists have urged resource companies to curb emissions. More recently, some big investors are taking global warming into consideration in their portfolio building. The Church of England and Norway's sovereign-wealth fund, one of the world's biggest institutional investors, have sold off shares in pure-play coal companies. 
At the same time, some of the resource companies' own shareholders are pushing them to scale back their dependence on carbon-based fuels, worried about the future financial impact of heightened global-warming regulation. Oil, mining and coal companies also are anticipating rules to limit emissions that would make oil and natural gas more costly, potentially reducing demand for the fuels. 
This has led to a change in behavior. Where in the past executives could be dismissive of the climate-change debate or leap to defend their companies, industry officials are now raising the issue themselves and proposing remedies such as the imposition of a carbon tax. 
"We have to stop being defensive," Total SA Chief Executive Patrick Pouyanne told a major industry conference in Houston last month. "In the end, it won't be solved by diplomacy only, but by private players, economic players like us." 
Total, Saudi Aramco, Eni SpA, BG PLC, Royal Dutch Shell PLC and others have formed an industry group specifically to add their collective voice to the climate debate, and they are trying to bring other leading international oil-and-gas companies into the group. 
"Business is engaged in a way I've never seen before," said Rachel Kyte, head of the climate-change division of the World Bank. 
Similarly, the mining industry's "approach to sustainable development has evolved," said Gary Goldberg, chief executive of Newmont Mining Corp., one of the world's biggest gold-mining companies. "It still needs to be addressed globally, and you still need to come up with a global solution." 
In February, Shell Chief Executive Ben van Beurden told a group of executives at an oil-and-gas conference in London that they could no longer keep a "low profile on the issue" of climate change ahead of United Nations-sponsored talks in Paris this year that could result in new global carbon-emissions limits. 
The Vatican is another important constituency. In an unusually explicit mix of the political and pastoral, Pope Francis has said he wants his encyclical about the environment to come out before the Paris climate meeting, so that it can "make a contribution" to deliberations. 
"The minute the word got out that the pope was working on this, we had a lot of people contributing," said Cardinal Peter Turkson of Ghana, who heads the Vatican office in charge of drafting the encyclical. "We listened to everybody who had something to say: physicians, academicians, students; people in all walks of life, including people from the oil industry." 
The Exxon briefing took place over a small private lunch at the home of a U.S. diplomat in the U.S. Embassy to the Holy See. A second Exxon lobbyist who is based in Italy attended the meeting, Exxon said. 
The meeting also was attended by Curtis McKenzie, a Canadian national with experience in finance and the oil-and-gas industry. Mr. McKenzie has had several duties in Cardinal Turkson's office, including administrative and research tasks and media relations, all on a voluntary basis. 
Vatican officials weren't present, Mr. McKenzie said. He said he isn't directly involved in work related to the encyclical. 
The encyclical pointedly wasn't discussed at the meeting, Exxon and Mr. McKenzie said. The Exxon planning official gave a 16-slide PowerPoint presentation covering the company's broad outlook for the global industry and energy use -- a talk Exxon spokesman Alan Jeffers said its executives have delivered hundreds of times this year. 
Exxon said that interacting with the Vatican isn't unusual for the company. "Exxon Mobil has a long-standing relationship with the Vatican and our people have had numerous interactions with Vatican officials over the years," Mr. Jeffers said in an emailed comment. 
Daniel Gilbert and John W. Miller contributed to this article. 
Credit: By Bill Spindle and Francis X. Rocca 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Petroleum industry; 

Climate change; 
Emissions control 


Company / organization 	Name: Royal Dutch Shell PLC 

NAICS: 324110, 213112, 221210; 


Name: Total SA NAICS: 447190, 324110, 211111 
Classification 	8510: Petroleum industry 

9180: International 


Title 	Business News: Big Oil Grows More Vocal on Climate 
Author 	Spindle, Bill; Rocca, Francis X 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	B.3 
Publication year 	2015 
Publication date 	May 26, 2015 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 	00999660 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	News 
ProQuest document ID 	1683023646 
Document URL 	https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1683023646?accountid=14902 
Copyright 	(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further 
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Last updated 	2017-11-22 
Database US Newsstream 
document 237 of 376 


The Keystone XL Pipeline: What Do You Really Know? You've read a lot about it; Now take this quiz and find out what you remember 
Harder, Amy.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]06 May 2015: R.2. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=The+Keystone+XL+Pipeline%3A+What+Do+You+Really+Know%3F+Yo 05-06&volume=&issue=&spage=R.2&au=Harder%2C+Amy&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Which of the following oil-extraction techniques are used to develop oil sands? (Pick all that apply) a. Hydraulic fracturing b. In situ, which injects steam deep below ground to separate the oil and pump it to the surface c. Mining d. Offshore drilling Answers: B and C. Oil from Canadian oil sands is produced by two main methods. 

Full Text 
The Keystone XL pipeline has been under review by the U.S. government for more than six years. President Barack Obama could make a decision on the project in the coming weeks, though he faces no deadline. 
You've probably heard about this pipeline, but how much do you actually know about it? Take this quiz to find out. 
1. What company is proposing to build the pipeline? 
a.
 ExxonMobil 

b.
 TransCanada 

c.
 EnergyFirst 

d.
 Enbridge 
Answer: B. TransCanada, of Calgary, Alberta, first announced it was going to build Keystone in 2008. 



2. Approximately how many gallons of oil a day are proposed to ship through the pipeline? 

a.
 35 millionb. 830,000 


c.
 255 milliond. 50 million 
Answer: A. By comparison, the U.S. consumes about 800 million gallons of oil a day. 



3. Which of the following is NOT a reason environmentalists have cited for opposing the pipeline? 

a.
 Objection to fracking 


b.
 Worries about climate change 


c.
 Objection to oil sands 


d.
 Worries about pipeline spills 
Answer: A. While many environmentalists oppose fracking, a drilling technology used in many parts of the U.S., it isn't an issue with Keystone. 



4. The energy industry says Keystone is necessary to reduce the reliance on shipping oil by rail, which the U.S. government and others say poses a greater risk of accidents. 
Due mostly to growth in U.S. oil production since 2008, shipments of oil by rail car have increased by about how much? 

a.
 50% 


b.
 200% 


c.
 5,000% 


d.
 25% 
Answer: C. The number of rail cars carrying oil increased to 493,126 in 2014 from 9,500 in 2008, according to the Association of American Railroads. 



5. Most new pipelines are routinely reviewed by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, but approval of Keystone has gone to President Obama because pipelines that cross an international border require a permit from the State Department. 
How many of the approximately 20 cross-border pipelines carrying oil or refined oil products have been approved by the Obama administration? 
a.
 0 

b.
 1 

c.
 3 

d.
 9 


Answer: B. The Obama administration approved the Alberta Clipper pipeline, which sends oil sands approximately 1,000 miles from Alberta to Wisconsin, in August 2009. In July 2013, the administration approved a natural-gas-liquids pipeline from North Dakota to Canada, though that isn't an oil project. 
6. Which one of the following substances are oil sands most like? 
a.
 White-sand beach 

b.
 Water 

c.
 Molasses 

d.
 Chili 


Answer: C. Oil sands, which contain a heavy kind of oil called bitumen, are often described as having the consistency of molasses, a thick, slow-moving glob. They're also likened to tar, a human-made product. Opponents of Keystone often describe oil sands as tar sands, though official U.S. and Canadian government analyses of this type of oil use the phrase oil sands. 
7.
 True or false: Canada is the only nation with oil-sands deposits. 

Answer: False. About 70 countries around the world, including the U.S. (especially Utah), have oil-sands deposits, according to the American Association of Petroleum Geologists. 

8.
 Which of the following oil-extraction techniques are used to develop oil sands? (Pick all that apply) 


a.
 Hydraulic fracturing 

b.
 In situ, which injects steam deep below ground to separate the oil and pump it to the surface 

c.
 Mining 

d.
 Offshore drilling 


Answers: B and C. Oil from Canadian oil sands is produced by two main methods. About 80% of the sands are developed by in situ, or "in place," drilling, which involves injecting steam deep below ground to separate the oil and pump it to the surface. The remainder is mined, according to the Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers. This mining is similar to that of a coal-mining operation, where large shovels scoop the oil sands into trucks, which then take the material to a processing plant where the oil is separated from the rest of the material. 
9. How many times has Congress passed legislation approving the Keystone XL pipeline? 
a.
 11 

b.
 1 

c.
 0 

d.
 4 
Answer: B. Despite all of the congressional noise around Keystone over the years, legislation approving the pipeline has been passed by both chambers of Congress only once. 



10. True or false: Canada controls the third-largest amount of proven oil reserves in the world, after Venezuela and Saudi Arabia. 

Answer: True. The oil sands account for nearly all of Canada's current proven oil reserves, which stand at 167 billion barrels, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration. 
Ms. Harder is a reporter in The Wall Street Journal's Washington bureau. She can be reached at amy.harder@wsj.com. Credit: By Amy Harder 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Petroleum industry; 

Petroleum production; 
Environmentalists; 
Hydraulic fracturing; 
Pipelines 


Location  United States--US; Calgary Alberta Canada  
People  Obama, Barack  
Company / organization  Name: Federal Energy Regulatory Commission--FERC  
NAICS: 926110, 926130;  
Name: Association of American Railroads  
NAICS: 813910  
Title  The Keystone XL Pipeline: What Do You Really Know? You've read a lot about it; Now take this  
quiz and find out what you remember  
Author  Harder, Amy  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  R.2  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  May 6, 2015  
Section  Energy (A Special Report)  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Feature  
ProQuest document ID  1678709374  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1678709374?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-23  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 238 of 376 


The Pope, the Poor and God's Intent 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]28 Apr 2015: A.16. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=The+Pope%2C+the+Poor+and+God%27s+Intent&title=Wall+Street+Jo 04-28&volume=&issue=&spage=A.16&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Regarding William McGurn's "The Pope, the Poor and Climate Change" (Main Street, April 21): In a country like India, around 350 million people (more than the population of the U.S.) go to bed early because there is no electric light, often miss meals because there is no food, and huddle together in huts because there is no heat. 

Full Text 
Regarding William McGurn's "The Pope, the Poor and Climate Change" (Main Street, April 21): In a country like India, around 350 million people (more than the population of the U.S.) go to bed early because there is no electric light, often miss meals because there is no food, and huddle together in huts because there is no heat. What they need desperately now and not in the future is energy, and in the cheapest form available, which happens to be coal. 
When the greens, and now possibly the pope, preach about the effect of climate change on future generations, which future generations are they talking about? In many poor countries much of those future generations may not be around because the earlier ones died because of a lack of energy. One has to wonder who holds the moral high ground here. 
Prof. Mark Castelino 
Rutgers Business School 
Newark, N.J. 
Mr. McGurn doesn't define "God's bounty." It includes clean, healthful air, clean water, fertile soils and rich biodiversity. Mr. McGurn would agree with much of today's 
environmentalism. During the time referenced in Genesis, money wasn't created, nor would profit or private ownership be considerations. 
Will our Judeo-Christian concept of a human-centered world change? We should all be more humble and recall Ambrose Bierce's ironic definition of an ocean: "A body of water 
occupying about two-thirds of a world made for man -- who has no gills." 

Faye Sinnott Barrington, Ill.U 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details 
Subject Climate change 
Location India; United States--US 
People Bierce, Ambrose Gwinnett (1842-1914?) 
Title The Pope, the Poor and God's Intent 
Author Anonymous 
Publication title Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages A.16 
Publication year 2015 
Publication date  Apr 28, 2015  
Section  Letters to the Editor  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1676040689  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1676040689?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 239 of 376 


U.S. News: GOP Plots Resistance To Talks On Climate 
Colleen McCain Nelson.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]27 Apr 2015: A.4. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+GOP+Plots+Resistance+To+Talks+On+Climate&title=W 04-27&volume=&issue=&spage=A.4&au=Colleen+McCain+Nelson&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Mr. Inhofe, the chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, plans to hold a hearing this summer focused on the Senate's advice-and-consent process and its possible application in international climate negotiations. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- President Barack Obama and Congress are headed for another power clash on the international stage, as key Senate Republicans challenge his efforts to forge a global pact on climate change. 
The White House considers the agreement with nearly 200 nations a historic opportunity to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions world-wide. But some GOP senators view it as executive overreach, and they are quietly considering ways to warn other countries that the president doesn't speak for them and may not be able to deliver on his promises to slash emissions. 
The strategy has a familiar ring. Last month, 47 Republican senators signed a letter telling Iran's leaders that the next president could revoke any nuclear agreement and that Congress could modify it at any time. Some Senate Republicans say they want to send a similar message to the countries negotiating an agreement that would rein in greenhouse-gas emissions. 
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R., Ky.) said a bipartisan pact giving Congress a bigger role in reviewing a final Iran deal could serve as a precedent. 
Administration officials have signaled optimism that climate talks are on track, with countries working toward completing a deal in December. They have expressed confidence that laws already on the books will allow them to move ahead with a plan submitted to the United Nations to cut greenhouse gases in the U.S. by nearly 30% by 2025 based on 2005 emission levels. 
A central component of the president's climate plan is a contentious Environmental Protection Agencyproposal to cut carbon emissions from U.S. power plants that is being challenged in court. Mr. McConnell, who argues the power-plant regulations hurt the coal industry in states including his, last month warned other countries to "proceed with caution before entering into a binding, unattainable deal." 
Administration officials say they are confident the EPA is on firm legal footing, adding that similar regulations have been challenged repeatedly and usually have been upheld. 
"We're operating in a space where we feel comfortable that we have the authority that we need to galvanize global momentum on this issue," said Brian Deese, a senior adviser to the president. 
Senate Republicans, though, question the president's plan to curb carbon emissions and the impact it would have on the U.S. economy. 
Sen. James Inhofe (R., Okla.) said Mr. Obama's unilateral pursuit of the climate accord exceeds the scope of president's power. Mr. Inhofe, the chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, plans to hold a hearing this summer focused on the Senate's advice-and-consent process and its possible application in international climate negotiations. 
Additionally, Mr. Inhofe said the Iran letter, which was penned by Sen. Tom Cotton (R., Ark.), could be a useful model to send a message about the climate agreement. 
"The Tom Cotton letter was an educational effort," Mr. Inhofe said in an interview. Other countries think "if the president of the United States says something, it's just automatic. . . His letter was over there saying, 'the president says he can do this; he can't do this.'" 
Mr. Obama decried as inappropriately partisan both the letter from 47 Republican senators and Mr. McConnell's warning to the world about the U.S. government's ability to fulfill a climate-change pledge. 
Todd Stern, the special envoy for climate change at the State Department, said other countries have raised questions during climate negotiations about Republican opposition to Mr. Obama's plan for cutting emissions, but he said international partners can be confident that the U.S. will honor its commitment. 
"Countries want to get reassurance that the U.S. can deliver on what we've said that we're doing," Mr. Stern added. 
Kristina Peterson contributed to this article. Credit: By Colleen McCain Nelson 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Emissions;  
Bills;  
Agreements;  
Climate change;  
Emission standards;  
Industrial plant emissions  
Location  United States--US  
People  Obama, Barack  
Company / organization  Name: United Nations--UN  
NAICS: 928120;  
Name: Republican Party  
NAICS: 813940  
Title  U.S. News: GOP Plots Resistance To Talks On Climate  
Author  Colleen McCain Nelson  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.4  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Apr 27, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1675824618  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1675824618?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 240 of 376 


Business News: Gas and Coal Trade Hot Words in U.S. --- Environmental rules and prices fuel tensions for Statoil and Peabody at Houston conference 
Harder, Amy.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]24 Apr 2015: B.3. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Business+News%3A+Gas+and+Coal+Trade+Hot+Words+in+U.S.+­--+Environmental+rules+and+prices+fuel+tensions+for+Statoil+and+Peabody+at+Houston+conference&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2015-04­24&volume=&issue=&spage=B.3&au=Harder%2C+Amy&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
"Cleaner coal, there's no such thing," Eldar Saetre, chief executive of Norwegian oil-and-gas giant Statoil ASA, told an audience of hundreds of people, most of them employed in the energy industry. 

Full Text 
HOUSTON -- Tough new environmental rules and cheap energy prices are heightening the battle between coal miners and natural-gas pumpers over which fuel will dominate the 
U.S. power market. 
At the IHS CERAWeek global energy conference here, there were some heated words on both sides of the debate. 
"Cleaner coal, there's no such thing," Eldar Saetre, chief executive of Norwegian oil-and-gas giant Statoil ASA, told an audience of hundreds of people, most of them employed 

in the energy industry. He added climate-conscious electric companies should burn natural gas instead. 
"The only thing that gets tense is when somebody like the head of Statoil makes a comment like there is no such thing as clean coal," said Gregory Boyce, CEO of Peabody 
Energy Corp., one of the largest coal companies by volume in the world. "In my view, that's an irresponsible statement to make," Mr. Boyce said in an interview. 
The dispute over whether coal can be considered a clean fuel isn't merely semantic. In 2007, coal powered almost half U.S. electricity production, according to the U.S. Energy 

Information Administration. Last year, its share dropped to 39% and due in large part to climate-change regulations proposed by the Obama administration, that percentage will 

fall to 30% by 2030. 
Natural gas, which fueled 21% of U.S. electricity in 2007, rose to 26% last year and could account for close to 40% by 2030. A decade ago, natural gas was considered to be in 
short supply in the U.S. and therefore was relatively expensive. The advent of horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing has unlocked a glut of cheap gas from American shale 
rock formations. The price of competing coal has been battered, leading money-losing companies to close mines. 

The two fuels are duking it out over more than price. Governments in Europe and the U.S. have been pushing utilities to slash the amount of pollution and greenhouse gases 
they emit. 
Mr. Saetre said in an interview that putting a price on the carbon content of fuels, such as the carbon tax Norway has imposed, works well. 
"Something will be left in the ground," he said. "I would leave coal in the ground." 
Mr. Boyce, who is stepping down as Peabody CEO next month but will remain executive chairman, disagreed. 

"For him to say there's no such thing as clean coal, I would say there's no such thing as clean gas," Mr. Boyce said. 
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has increasingly pushed to clean up pollution from power plants, and is ramping up its effort to fight greenhouse-gas emissions. 
Under the agency's proposed carbon rules, any new coal plants must use a technology called carbon capture and sequestration, meant to capture and store carbon gases 
produced by burning fuel instead of allowing it to flow into the atmosphere. That technology isn't commercially available yet, most in the energy industry agree. 

Natural gas emits about half the carbon of coal when burned for electricity. But Mr. Boyce said he believes that eventually gas-fired plants also will have to adopt carbon-capture 

technology to meet climate-change goals, something Obama administration officials have said too. 
Mr. Boyce delivered a stump speech at the conference on Thursday underscoring his belief that coal is essential to ensure poor people can afford electricity, in the U.S. and 
around the world. Affordability should be the first focus of federal policy, he said, "not an environmental crisis that is predicted by flawed computer models." 

Gina McCarthy, the EPA administrator, offered reassurance to the coal industry on Thursday, saying that no fuel will be shut out under the agency's climate plans. By 2030, she said, "it is very clear that we are talking at least 30% of our energy generation coming from coal." 
Erin Ailworth contributed to this article. Credit: By Amy Harder 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Natural gas; Energy policy; Industrial plant emissions; Coal-fired power plants; Petroleum industry; Conferences; Coal industry  
Location  United States--US  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 924110;  
Name: NAICS:  Statoil ASA 324110, 211111;  
Name: NAICS:  Peabody Energy Corp 212112  
Classification  9190: United States 8510: Petroleum industry 8500: Extractive industries 4310: Regulation  
Title  Business News: Gas and Coal Trade Hot Words in U.S. --- Environmental rules and prices fuel tensions for Statoil and Peabody at Houston conference  
Author  Harder, Amy  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.3  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Apr 24, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1675108014  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1675108014?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  

Database US Newsstream 
document 241 of 376 


WSJ.D Technology: Toshiba Readies Hydrogen Generator 
Iwata, Mari.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]21 Apr 2015: B.4. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=WSJ.D+Technology%3A+Toshiba+Readies+Hydrogen+Generator&title= 04-21&volume=&issue=&spage=B.4&au=Iwata%2C+Mari&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Toshiba's system, called H2One, consists of a 30-kilowatt solar panel, a hydrogen-producing unit, a hydrogen storage tank, a fuel cell, a battery and a water storage tank, all installed in a shipping-container-size unit for easy transportation. 

Full Text 
TOKYO -- Toshiba Corp. plans to offer a transportable hydrogen-power generator later this year that doesn't produce carbon dioxide in the process, thereby getting around the main drawback tarnishing hydrogen's clean-energy reputation. 
The company hopes to market its power-generating system by the end of September in what would be its first step toward developing technologies for mass-producing hydrogen using renewable energy. 
Hydrogen is seen as an energy of the future because it doesn't emit CO2 when it is used in fuel cells. But most hydrogen used commercially is produced from fossil fuels, such as coal and natural gas, that produce CO2 in the process. 
Amid growing concerns about global warming, Japanese companies such as Chiyoda Corp. and Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd. are competing to develop CO2-free hydrogen technology that isn't too costly. 
Toshiba's system, called H2One, consists of a 30-kilowatt solar panel, a hydrogen-producing unit, a hydrogen storage tank, a fuel cell, a battery and a water storage tank, all installed in a shipping-container-size unit for easy transportation. The generator can supply electricity and hot water for about 300 people for about a week, said Hiroyuki Ota, senior manager of Toshiba's New Energy Solution Project. 
Mr. Ota declined to provide a specific price for the unit, but said it would be about "two-thirds of a lithium-ion battery system with the same capability." Toshiba aims to sell 50 units by the end of March 2016, and has already received several orders, Mr. Ota said. 
Credit: By Mari Iwata 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Carbon dioxide; 
Fuel cells; 

Generators; 

Alternative energy sources 


Company / organization 	Name: Toshiba Corp 

NAICS: 334310, 334413 


Classification 	9179: Asia & the Pacific 

8650: Electrical & electronics industries 


Title 	WSJ.D Technology: Toshiba Readies Hydrogen Generator 
Author 	Iwata, Mari 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	B.4 
Publication year 	2015 
Publication date  Apr 21, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1674378083  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1674378083?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 242 of 376 


U.S. News: Court Skeptical of Climate Case Against EPA --- Rule on power plants' carbon emissions needs to be completed before a challenge, judges say 
Harder, Amy.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]17 Apr 2015: A.5. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+Court+Skeptical+of+Climate+Case+Against+EPA+­--+Rule+on+power+plants%27+carbon+emissions+needs+to+be+completed+before+a+challenge%2C+judges+say&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2015­04-17&volume=&issue=&spage=A.5&au=Harder%2C+Amy&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The case against the Environmental Protection Agency, up for oral argument at the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, is the first test of how well the central component of President Barack Obama's climate agenda can withstand legal scrutiny. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- A federal appeals-court panel suggested Thursday that it might be too early for a court challenge to an Obama administration proposal to cut carbon emissions 
from U.S. power plants. 
The case against the Environmental Protection Agency, up for oral argument at the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, is the first test of how well 
the central component of President Barack Obama's climate agenda can withstand legal scrutiny. 

The rules aren't yet final, however, a development the courts almost always require before allowing challenges to a regulation. 
"All we have in front of us is a proposed rule-making," said Judge Tom Griffith, who was appointed by Republican President George W. Bush. 
Judge Griffith also said that a ruling on a proposed regulation could invite legal challenges on other proposed regulations. "You're inviting us into a morass," Judge Griffith said 

to Elbert Lin, solicitor general for West Virginia, the lead plaintiff in the case challenging the EPA. 
Judge Brett Kavanaugh, another Bush appointee, said the "dividing line between judicial review and waiting" is whether a regulation is final. 
Still, the judges also suggested it might be fine for them to rule now since the proposed regulation isn't likely to change significantly when it does become final. 
"What are we do to with statements that say the rule won't be changed," Judge Griffith said, referring to remarks made by EPA officials. 
Proposed in June 2014, the regulations call for a 30% cut in power-plant carbon emissions by 2030, based on emissions levels in 2005. 
The state and corporate challengers argue the regulation is such a dramatic, labor-intensive overhaul that it is a threat to the U.S. coal industry. 
"While we have always said that it is unusual to set aside a proposed rule, we believe that it is legally justified and appropriate in this case," West Virginia Attorney General 

Patrick Morrisey said in a written statement after the hearing. "The EPA has made clear that it plans to finalize this rule and regulate based upon a section of the Clean Air Act 

where it lacks legal authority to do so." 
The Obama administration says that the EPA is interpreting the Clean Air Act in a reasonable way, and more broadly, that past legal precedents, including Supreme Court 
rulings, give the government the authority to address climate change. 

"We believe that lawsuits challenging the rule are premature," EPA spokeswoman Liz Purchia said. Ms. Purchia said that the agency addressed the legal underpinning of its 

proposal last June and plans to address all comments about legality in the final rule, expected this summer. 
The arguments lasted for more than two hours, with testimony from a group of coal-dependent states and Ohio-based coal producer Murray Energy Corp., which brought the 
case, and government lawyers defending the EPA. 

A decision is expected in the coming months. 
The challengers argued the Clean Air Act prohibits certain double regulation of existing power plants, citing an ambiguity in the law dating back more than 20 years. 
The EPA already regulates mercury emissions from power plants under one section of the law, so the challengers argue the EPA can't rely upon a different, rarely used provision 

to regulate greenhouse-gas emissions of power plants. The rule regulating mercury emissions from power plants is under review by the Supreme Court, and a rule on that is expected by June. 
During the arguments, the judges indicated legal precedent may suggest that when inconsistency in the law exists, government agencies get deference in interpreting it. 
The case is the beginning of what is expected to be a yearslong legal battle over Mr. Obama's climate agenda. "We expect it will be legally challenged, and it could likely go to 
the Supreme Court," EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy said last week. 

Credit: By Amy Harder 

(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Emissions;  
Federal court decisions;  
Power plants;  
Court hearings & proceedings;  
Regulation;  
Coal;  
Judges & magistrates;  
Environmental protection;  
Industrial plant emissions  
Location  United States--US  
People  Bush, George W; Obama, Barack  
Company / organization  Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS: 924110  
Title  U.S. News: Court Skeptical of Climate Case Against EPA --- Rule on power plants' carbon  
emissions needs to be completed before a challenge, judges say  
Author  Harder, Amy  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.5  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Apr 17, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1673701864  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1673701864?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 243 of 376 


U.S. News: Obama Submits Climate Plan --- Republicans warn that Congress may not abide by White House vows on greenhouse gases 
Mauldin, William.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]01 Apr 2015: A.4. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+Obama+Submits+Climate+Plan+--­+Republicans+warn+that+Congress+may+not+abide+by+White+House+vows+on+greenhouse+gases&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2015-04­01&volume=&issue=&spage=A.4&au=Mauldin%2C+William&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Republicans used the announcement to amplify criticism of President Barack Obama's federal emissions rules, with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell warning other countries that Congress could stand in the way of promises the White House makes in the negotiations. 

Full Text 
The Obama administration formally submitted its plan for cutting greenhouse gases nearly 30% by 2025, part of a global effort this year to curb emissions of carbon dioxide. 
The move adds pressure on other countries -- including Australia, Canada, and India -- that haven't spelled out concrete plans. 
The U.S., the second-biggest carbon emitter after China, has taken a leading role in recent months in negotiations with nearly 200 nations to strike an agreement through the 

United Nations to rein in gases blamed for global warming. 
"Our target will help spur others to step forward with targets of their own," said Todd Stern, the U.S. special envoy for climate change. 
Republicans used the announcement to amplify criticism of President Barack Obama's federal emissions rules, with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell warning other 

countries that Congress could stand in the way of promises the White House makes in the negotiations. 
"Our international partners should proceed with caution before entering into a binding, unattainable deal," the Kentucky Republican said in a statement. 
Major world economies had been expected to submit their contributions to carbon cuts by the end of March, but only a few have done so -- the U.S., the European Union, 

Mexico, Norway, Switzerland and Russia, which also made its move Tuesday. 
The U.S. announcement shows the White House is trying to keep the climate talks on track as countries work toward a deal in Paris in December. Some developing countries and 

commodity-dependent economies are dragging their feet. But U.S. officials say Mexico's timely submission of a plan and China's announced goal are a sign that the old divide 
between rich and poorer countries is coming down. 
The cuts that the Obama administration is offering rely on previously announced rules for power-plant emissions, vehicle efficiency and building standards. The power-plant 

rules, expected to be completed this summer, would reduce emissions from that sector by 30% between 2005 and 2030. The administration is planning new regulations for 

medium and heavy-duty vehicles by next March and has programs to boost energy conservation in buildings and curb other gases. 
The American Petroleum Institute, a Washington-based trade group for the oil and gas industry, cautioned in a statement Tuesday that the administration's proposals could 
increase the cost of energy and crimp growth. "Meeting climate challenges must go hand in hand with ensuring that Americans have the affordable and reliable sources of 
energy necessary to grow our economy," the group said. 

Mr. Obama had already given the size of the U.S. cut -- between 26% and 28% of carbon dioxide by 2025 from 2005 levels -- in a joint announcement with China last fall in 

Beijing. 
Republicans in Congress call the administration's efforts to regulate power plants a "war on coal," and have criticized the joint announcement because it establishes a peak year 
for Chinese emissions rather than spelling out the country's reductions. 

GOP lawmakers also question Mr. Obama's ability to enact power-plant rules through the Environmental Protection Agency. 

The U.S. is backing a delicate balance for the legal framework of the Paris agreement; the deal is meant to have legal force in some areas but wouldn't be a formal treaty that 
would need support in the U.S. Senate, according to people following the negotiations. 
The stated goal of the current round of negotiations is to prevent global average temperatures from rising more than 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) above 

preindustrial levels, but experts following the talks say it is unlikely any deal reached in Paris this year would meet that target. 

Other leading economies are expected to submit their national contributions to the cuts in the first half of this year, and officials will meet for rounds of negotiations before the 
high-level gathering in Paris. 
Credit: By William Mauldin 

(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Greenhouse gases;  
Global warming;  
Climate change;  
Emissions control  
Location  United States--US  
People  Obama, Barack  
Company / organization  Name: Congress  
NAICS: 921120  
Classification  9190: United States  
1540: Pollution control  
Title  U.S. News: Obama Submits Climate Plan --- Republicans warn that Congress may not abide by  
White House vows on greenhouse gases  
Author  Mauldin, William  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.4  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Apr 1, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1667874934  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1667874934?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 244 of 376 


Business & Environment (A Special Report) --- Emissions vs. Efficiency: The Battle Rages: The energy sector is being buffeted by all sorts of forces -- from new regulation to falling prices to shifting demand; but those dislocations also are creating all sorts of opportunities 
Bussey, John.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]31 Mar 2015: R.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Business+%26amp%3B+Environment+%28A+Special+Report%29+­--+Emissions+vs.+Efficiency%3A+The+Battle+Rages%3A+The+energy+sector+is+being+buffeted+by+all+sorts+of+forces+-­+from+new+regulation+to+falling+prices+to+shifting+demand%3B+but+those+dislocations+also+are+creating+all+sorts+of+opportunities&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00 03-31&volume=&issue=&spage=R.1&au=Bussey%2C+John&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
[...]polarizing debate over climate change -- yes, it's an impending catastrophe; no, it's just more Chicken Little -- didn't get traction at ECO:nomics this year. 

Full Text 
Coal consumption globally -- and all that pollution -- just keeps growing, thanks largely to economic expansion in China and India. But is there a safe role for coal in the U.S. energy mix? 
That was a hot debate at The Wall Street Journal's ECO:nomics conference in Santa Barbara, Calif., last week. 
The big annual gathering of environmentalists, business executives and energy experts tackled an array of dislocations and opportunities rocking their world. Among them: the stunning drop in oil and natural-gas prices; the continued rise of alternative fuels such as hydro, wind and solar; the empowerment at companies of the "sustainability officer"; and the evolution of the environmental movement itself into big business. 
Firing the coal debate: The Environmental Protection Agency's proposed new restrictions on power-plant emissions. The rules still face legal hurdles, but it was evident to even the staunchest fossil-fuel die-hard at the conference that coal -- in an era of plentiful shale gas and oil, and energy generated from cleaner sources -- is burning on borrowed time. 
Who wins? Who loses? And how do big utilities, which have huge coal-fired capacity and an obligation to provide reliable power to millions of customers, adjust to the shock? 
Nicholas Akins, the chief executive of American Electric Power, said his utility is shutting 20% of its coal fleet. But the EPA's near-term target for reducing emissions isn't reachable, he added. 
Robert Murray, the CEO of Murray Energy, the big coal-mining company, said the rules are illegal and an overreach by the EPA. He dismissed concerns about climate change and carbon emissions as "global goofiness." 
Mr. Murray didn't get much of a rise out of the crowd. In fact, polarizing debate over climate change -- yes, it's an impending catastrophe; no, it's just more Chicken Little -­didn't get traction at ECO:nomics this year. Instead, the group was more focused on the here and now. 
Gina McCarthy, the head of the EPA, invoked images of China's air you can chew during her defense of her plans. And pretty much everyone agreed that more can be done to optimize energy already on the grid. 
At ECO:nomics 2015, the debate over emissions and efficiency was all business. 
Mr. Bussey is an associate editor of The Wall Street Journal. He can be reached at john.bussey@wsj.com or on Twitter @johncbussey. 
Credit: By John Bussey 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Coal industry; 

Conferences; 
Coal-fired power plants; 
Series & special reports; 
Environmental protection; 
Energy industry; 

Industrial plant emissions 


Location  United States--US; China; India; Santa Barbara California  
Company / organization  Name:  Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS:  924110;  

Name: American Electric Power Co Inc NAICS: 551112, 221122 
Classification  9190: United States  
8340: Electric, water & gas utilities  
4310: Regulation  
Title  Business & Environment (A Special Report) --- Emissions vs. Efficiency: The Battle Rages: The  
energy sector is being buffeted by all sorts of forces -- from new regulation to falling prices to  
shifting demand; but those dislocations also are creating all sorts of opportunities  
Author  Bussey, John  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  R.1  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Mar 31, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Feature  
ProQuest document ID  1667504403  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1667504403?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 245 of 376 


Business & Environment (A Special Report) --- Let the Markets Find The Best Solutions: Tim Phillips argues there's a high cost when the government gets too involved in the energy sector 
Harder, Amy.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]31 Mar 2015: R.4. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Business+%26amp%3B+Environment+%28A+Special+Report%29+­
+Let+the+Markets+Find+The+Best+Solutions%3A+Tim+Phillips+argues+there%27s+a+high+cost+when+the+government+gets+too+involved+in+the+energy+sector&title=Wa 03-31&volume=&issue=&spage=R.4&au=Harder%2C+Amy&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
[...]you'll get a better energy product for Americans. [...]do you support renewable energy? MR. PHILLIPS: 

Full text 
Tim Phillips heads up Americans for Prosperity, the political advocacy group backed by the billionaire Koch brothers that has become one of the biggest conservative forces in the country, fighting Democrats on issues ranging from the Affordable Care Act to climate change to the Keystone XL Pipeline. 
Mr. Phillips sat down with The Wall Street Journal's Amy Harder to discuss his views on climate change, renewable energy and the Environmental Protection Agency's new rules limiting power-plant emissions. Here are edited excerpts. 
MS. HARDER: You recently had dinner with a former top Obama administration official, David Axelrod. David does a lot of work on climate change. What do you think about that, Tim? Do you think the government has a responsibility to do something on climate change? 
MR. PHILLIPS: I think the government has a responsibility to maintain a good, clean environment for the nation. And I think we have some of the better environmental standards in the world. And certainly, if you go to China, you don't want to see what's happening in Beijing and other places where people are struggling happen here. So we absolutely agree that we need some good, sound environmental laws. The question is, what policies do they want to do? And what impact are they going have on individual Americans? That's where we often disagree. 
MS. HARDER: On climate change specifically, though, yes or no? Do you think the government should do something on that? 
Mr. PHILLIPS: I think the government should look very carefully as to what level mankind is contributing to climate change. And they ought to be very careful that they don't harm a lot of Americans in our nation in pursuing policies to combat what they view as climate change or global warming. 
MS. HARDER: I understand that AFP is thinking about getting involved or might be already involved in helping the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, a Republican from the very coal-intensive state of Kentucky, try to stop the EPA's proposed carbon rules. Can you talk about that? 
MR. PHILLIPS: We applaud what Majority Leader McConnell is doing. We think these EPA regulations are going to harm so many Americans. An estimated 240,000 folks are going to lose their jobs, either directly or indirectly, because of new EPA power-plant rules. It's estimated that 40 states are going to see double-digit utility increases, with 14 states seeing 20%-plus utility rate increases. 
MS. HARDER: The EPA itself said about 7% to 8%. 
MR. PHILLIPS: We think they're lowballing it. And when you look at what those utility-rate increases mean -- maybe it isn't going to harm those of us in this room that much -­but there are millions of Americans who are struggling from paycheck to paycheck. And an increase of even 7% to 8%, and certainly 14% to 20%, is devastating. 
And I think we ought to look very carefully at exactly any benefit that's going to accrue from these regulations. 
MS. HARDER: If you could pick the top policy that you would want Congress to pass on energy, what would it be? 
MR. PHILLIPS: Getting rid of all subsidies for every form of energy -- oil, natural gas, wind, solar, everything. Let's get government out of the business of picking winners and losers in the marketplace. 
In the end, you'll get a better energy product for Americans. But you'll also lessen the cronyism that we too often see coming out of Congress, whether it's Solyndra, where the money you get, frankly, is based on how good your lobbyist is and how well-connected to some member of an administration he or she is. And by the way, Republicans have done that, too. They have absolutely been guilty of that kind of cronyism. One example is the farm bill. 
The second policy would be pushing back against the RPSs [renewable portfolio standards that require increased production of energy from renewables] at the state level, especially. They distort the market and hurt individual Americans. 
MS. HARDER: Generally speaking, do you support renewable energy? 
MR. PHILLIPS: We think that if an energy source can compete in the marketplace, good for them, whether it's wind, solar, oil, natural gas or coal. So we have no issue at all with renewable energy, and I hope they do succeed. 
[What we're doing is] working to roll back carve-outs. When you're guaranteed market share, it slows down innovation. It distorts the individual interest for corporations and individuals and companies. And this may be a contrarian view, but I think these things that have guaranteed market share to renewable have hurt them. Maybe it's helped them in the near term to lock in the ability to use subsidies and these market-share commitments to build up infrastructure, but it has harmed their innovation. 
CHRIS STANLEY: I'm with Abengoa. We produce both solar and biofuels. I know Koch Industries is actually one of the largest ethanol producers in the country, so we all have that in common. Given the fact that the gasoline and petroleum market in particular isn't a free and open market, controlled from production and drilling to distribution and retail sales by basically the same companies, how do you incentivize the development of an industry like biofuels without things like [renewable fuel standards]? 
MR. PHILLIPS: We would argue it's better to let the market drive it. And you're right, Koch Industries is involved in ethanol, yet we still strongly urge the ending of government standards for that, for them. The unintended consequences of that policy are a great deal of farmland being shifted from food production to energy production for biofuels that most of the studies indicate don't burn as cleanly as what we have in the first place. 
Biofuels is one area where we may have some agreement with environmental groups. 
Credit: By Amy Harder 

(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Climate change; 
Environmental protection; 
Energy policy; 
Industrial plant emissions 


People 	McConnell, Mitch; Phillips, Tim 
Company / organization 	Name: Congress 

NAICS: 921120; 

Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA NAICS: 924110 
Title 	Business & Environment (A Special Report) --- Let the Markets Find The Best Solutions: Tim 
Phillips argues there's a high cost when the government gets too involved in the energy sector 

Author 	Harder, Amy 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	R.4 
Publication year 	2015 
Publication date 	Mar 31, 2015 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  

Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1667504315  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1667504315?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 246 of 376 


Tesla: Just Another Car Company 
Jenkins, Holman W, Jr.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]25 Mar 2015: A.13. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Tesla%3A+Just+Another+Car+Company&title=Wall+Street+Journal& 03-25&volume=&issue=&spage=A.13&au=Jenkins%2C+Holman+W%2C+Jr&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Part of Tesla's market value, then, is attributable to the likelihood that it will be acquired by another car maker needing electric vehicles to offset its gasoline-powered vehicles. [...]passenger cars of every description account for less than 5% of greenhouse-gas emissions. 

Full Text 
Elon Musk has proved that a market exists for electric cars, despite their many inconveniences, especially if they come wrapped in taxpayer subsidies. He hasn't proved he can make a profit. 
His idea of an industry at scale, he would probably be loath to admit, almost certainly depends on government intervention to make gasoline-powered cars increasingly prohibited. His gigafactory, to which he will commit $2 billion to double the world-wide capacity of existing lithium-ion batteries, is a mute acknowledgment that he sees no battery breakthroughs in the offing that would transform the problems of range anxiety and recharge times. 
His latest announcement at least has him no longer attacking journalists who mention the problem of range. He updated the car's software so it will constantly tell the driver if he can hope to reach his destination or the nearest charging station. When a driver gets there, though, he'll still spend hours, not minutes, filling up. 
Mr. Musk also announced new self-driving features like those all auto makers are working on or have introduced in luxury cars that compete with Tesla's. He's been playing catch-up in safety technology too. Even Tesla's innovations with electric power are not so alien and revolutionary that other car makers have not been able quickly to adopt them for their own vehicles. 
In what way, then, is Tesla disruptive, the fanboy description of companies that come along and render obsolete what went before? 
Good question. When a user leaves his driveway in a Tesla, he still wastes time staring out a windshield and gripping a wheel. He still sits in traffic. As with any other car, Tesla's electronics are long out of date before the car's useful life has expired. As with any other car, a Tesla owner ties up thousands of dollars in a piece of equipment that sits idle 95% of the time. Uber is disruptive. Tesla isn't. Tesla is disruptive mostly of a driver's confidence that he's going to reach his destination without needing a tow. 
Tesla solves no problem of the automobile. It only creates a new problem. 
Nonetheless Tesla's stock price is impressive, even if it is down recently. At $25 billion, Tesla is worth almost half of Ford, though Ford sells 70 times as many vehicles, and profitably. 
As the perpetually blunt Sergio Marchionne of Fiat Chrysler has pointed out, Obama fuel-economy rules virtually require car companies to produce electric cars at a loss. Part of Tesla's market value, then, is attributable to the likelihood that it will be acquired by another car maker needing electric vehicles to offset its gasoline-powered vehicles. But here's an irony: In a world where other car makers are forced to build and sell electric cars too, Tesla's golden brand gives it a leg up, but Tesla does not have the option of forever losing money on electric cars. To fully realize its brand value Tesla might have to sell itself to an auto maker that does. 
California has tried to solve this problem for Tesla with its zero-emissions vehicle mandates, which have other makers buying ZEV credits from Tesla. But the sheer idiocy of these subsidies is a continual risk to Tesla. A ZEV car in California is one with zero emissions at the tailpipe, no matter how much environmental degradation it causes upstream. Toyota, for one, has recently switched its attention to hydrogen-fueled cars, which emit only water and warm air at the tailpipe, never mind that 95% of the world's hydrogen is manufactured from fossil fuels. 
Policies that are so transparently stupid and perverse, like the policy of subsidizing rich people with $7,500 tax credits to indulge themselves with Tesla's products, would not seem a sound basis for a scale auto manufacturer, which Tesla aspires to become. 
On any given day a meme could get rolling in the media that the policies that prop up Tesla are a fraud, pretending to do something about global warming when they don't. Even if the electricity powering a Tesla didn't come mostly from coal, the niche in which Tesla competes, luxury cars, is a vanishingly small part of the putative problem. In fact, passenger cars of every description account for less than 5% of greenhouse-gas emissions. 
What P.T. Barnum said about the American public may be doubly true of American politicians, but even a congressman might come to see through Mr. Musk's feverish attempts to associate Tesla with solar power even though a Tesla is not a solar-powered car. 
Mr. Musk has done a superb job of casting a glow of political nicey-nice around his company. He's a brilliant entrepreneur. Unlike some other overconfident public figures, Mr. Musk probably won't embarrass his investors by texting photos of his private parts to strange women or joking about President Obama's taste in movies. But overlooked may be a considerable amount of political risk that's not properly reflected in Tesla's stock price. 
(See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: My Tesla Doesn't Have a Range Issue" -- WSJ April 6, 2015) 
Credit: By Holman W. Jenkins, Jr. 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Automobile industry;  
Research & development--R&D;  
Luxury automobiles;  
Business plans;  
Government subsidies;  
Electric vehicles  
Location  California; United States--US  
People  Musk, Elon  
Company / organization  Name: Tesla Motors Inc  
NAICS: 336999  
Classification  9190: United States  
9110: Company specific  
8380: Hotels & restaurants  
2310: Planning  
Title  Tesla: Just Another Car Company  
Author  Jenkins, Holman W, Jr  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.13  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Mar 25, 2015  
column  Business World  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1665683629  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1665683629?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  


document 247 of 376 


Law Journal: EPA Pollution Efforts at Crucial Turn 
Kendall, Brent; Harder, Amy.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]23 Mar 2015: B.4. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Law+Journal%3A+EPA+Pollution+Efforts+at+Crucial+Turn&title=Wall+S 03-23&volume=&issue=&spage=B.4&au=Kendall%2C+Brent%3BHarder%2C+Amy&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The Supreme Court on Wednesday will hear argument on the Environmental Protection Agency's first-ever regulations requiring power plants to cut emissions of mercury and other toxic air pollutants. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration's initiatives to reduce air pollution have fared well in several hard-fought legal battles, but a new round of court challenges could determine whether the White House's most ambitious efforts will survive. 
The Supreme Court on Wednesday will hear argument on the Environmental Protection Agency's first-ever regulations requiring power plants to cut emissions of mercury and other toxic air pollutants. The rules, adopted in 2012 and scheduled to go into effect in April, were more than two decades in the making. The case could set important precedent on when and whether the agency needs to consider the potential regulatory costs to industries. 
Then, in April, a U.S. appeals court will consider an early challenge to the EPA's proposal to slash carbon emissions from coal-fired power plants, even though the agency hasn't finished the regulations. The coming rules, which the EPA expects to complete this summer, are the center pillar of President Barack Obama's plan to address climate change. The timing of the lawsuit is unorthodox and it faces an uphill battle, but a dozen states have lined up to try to short-circuit the EPA's plans. 
Together, the lawsuits represent attacks on two of the most consequential policies of Mr. Obama's environmental agenda. 
"The courts absolutely hold the key to President Obama's environmental legacy," said Thomas Lorenzen of Dorsey & Whitney LLP, a former Justice Department lawyer who supervised environmental cases. 
The Supreme Court case focuses on whether the EPA acted properly when it considered only public-health risks, and not industry compliance costs, in deciding whether to require coal and oil-fired plants to cut most emissions of mercury and other hazardous air pollutants. 
Coal and oil-fired power plants are the dominant U.S. emitters of mercury, which can cause serious health problems for children as well as fetuses that can absorb the neurotoxin through their mothers. The regulations require plants to install high-tech scrubber systems to remove the pollutants. 
The EPA concluded that costs weren't a relevant consideration. It conducted an analysis estimating the costs to be $9.6 billion annually while valuing the public-health improvements between $37 billion and $90 billion, mostly through a reduction in premature deaths. The EPA reached those numbers by measuring "co-benefits" of the emission controls, which will filter other pollutants in addition to mercury and related toxics. 
A group of 21 states, including ones that rely heavily on coal for electricity, and industry groups challenged EPA's approach. The states in a court brief argued Congress "did not intend for EPA to act with deliberate indifference to cost when answering the basic regulatory question whether it is appropriate to regulate." The states said the health benefits of the regulations, when focused specifically on mercury reductions, were just $4 million to $6 million a year. 
An EPA spokeswoman said, "We fully believe that EPA acted properly under its Clean Air Act authority in regulating harmful toxic air pollution from power plants." 
If the Supreme Court rules against the EPA, the decision wouldn't foreclose the agency from regulating mercury, but it would have to write new rules and give industry costs greater consideration. 
Carol Browner, a former EPA administrator under President Bill Clinton, said the case could have a broad impact if it forces the EPA to consider the costs of regulating even when the law doesn't specifically require it. "To the degree that EPA cannot maintain that distinction between the scientific process and the regulatory process, that would be a big change," said Ms. Browner, who was also a top White House adviser to Mr. Obama. 
The mercury regulations also are a factor in a closely watched carbon emissions case in front of a Washington federal appeals court on April 16. 
A group of states led by West Virginia, along with Ohio-based Murray Energy Corp., say the Clean Air Act prohibits certain double regulation of existing power plants. Once the EPA regulated the plants for mercury emissions under one section of the law, it couldn't then rely upon a different, rarely used provision to regulate greenhouse gas emissions, the challengers argue. 
The EPA carbon regulations, proposed last June, call for a 30% cut in power-plant carbon emissions by 2030 based on emissions levels in 2005. Though the rules won't be completed for several more months, the challengers argue the regulations are such a dramatic, labor-intensive overhaul, they should be stopped now. 
A Murray Energy spokesman said the company filed suit now because the plan "has caused, and continues to cause, immediate and substantial harm to the U.S. coal industry." 
West Virginia Attorney General Patrick Morrisey said, "Judicial relief is essential now because the mere existence and breadth of the proposal is making states and power plants expend resources and make capital investment decisions now to comply with an illegal rule." 
Legal observers say the EPA's carbon proposal raises tough legal questions, but it may be too soon for a court to resolve them. "It's a real uphill battle to get a court to weigh in before an agency actually issues a final rule," said Jeff Holmstead, a former EPA official under President George W. Bush. 
The EPA called the lawsuit premature and said it would address public comments about the legality of its carbon rule when it issues it. "Courts have reaffirmed repeatedly the science, law and reasoning on which our rule making has relied," the spokeswoman said. 
Credit: By Brent Kendall and Amy Harder 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Air pollution; Environmental protection; Emission standards; Mercury; Carbon; Pollutants; Presidents; Coal-fired power plants; Climate change; Litigation; Courts of appeals; Emissions control; Industrial plant emissions  
Location  United States--US  
People  Browner, Carol  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Supreme Court-US 922110;  
Name: NAICS:  Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 924110  
Classification  1540: Pollution control 2430: Business-government relations 4310: Regulation 4330: Litigation 8340: Electric, water & gas utilities 9190: United States  
Title  Law Journal: EPA Pollution Efforts at Crucial Turn  
Author  Kendall, Brent; Harder, Amy  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.4  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Mar 23, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  

Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1665073240  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1665073240?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 248 of 376 


REVIEW --- Fossil Fuels Will Save the World (Really) --- There are problems with oil, gas and coal, but their benefits for people -- and the planet -- are beyond dispute 
Ridley, Matt.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]14 Mar 2015: C.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=REVIEW+--­+Fossil+Fuels+Will+Save+the+World+%28Really%29+---+There+are+problems+with+oil%2C+gas+and+coal%2C+but+their+benefits+for+people+--+and+the+planet+-­+are+beyond+dispute&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2015-03­14&volume=&issue=&spage=C.1&au=Ridley%2C+Matt&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
[...]a more realistic assessment of our energy and environmental situation suggests that, for decades to come, we will continue to rely overwhelmingly on the fossil fuels that have contributed so dramatically to the world's prosperity and progress. 

Full Text 
The environmental movement has advanced three arguments in recent years for giving up fossil fuels: (1) that we will soon run out of them anyway; (2) that alternative sources of energy will price them out of the marketplace; and (3) that we cannot afford the climate consequences of burning them. 
These days, not one of the three arguments is looking very healthy. In fact, a more realistic assessment of our energy and environmental situation suggests that, for decades to come, we will continue to rely overwhelmingly on the fossil fuels that have contributed so dramatically to the world's prosperity and progress. 
In 2013, about 87% of the energy that the world consumed came from fossil fuels, a figure that -- remarkably -- was unchanged from 10 years before. This roughly divides into three categories of fuel and three categories of use: oil used mainly for transport, gas used mainly for heating, and coal used mainly for electricity. 
Over this period, the overall volume of fossil-fuel consumption has increased dramatically, but with an encouraging environmental trend: a diminishing amount of carbon-dioxide emissions per unit of energy produced. The biggest contribution to decarbonizing the energy system has been the switch from high-carbon coal to lower-carbon gas in electricity generation. 
On a global level, renewable energy sources such as wind and solar have contributed hardly at all to the drop in carbon emissions, and their modest growth has merely made up for a decline in the fortunes of zero-carbon nuclear energy. (The reader should know that I have an indirect interest in coal through the ownership of land in Northern England on which it is mined, but I nonetheless applaud the displacement of coal by gas in recent years.) 
The argument that fossil fuels will soon run out is dead, at least for a while. The collapse of the price of oil over the past six months is the result of abundance: an inevitable consequence of the high oil prices of recent years, which stimulated innovation in hydraulic fracturing, horizontal drilling, seismology and information technology. The U.S. -- the country with the oldest and most developed hydrocarbon fields -- has found itself once again, surprisingly, at the top of the energy-producing league, rivaling Saudi Arabia in oil and Russia in gas. 
The shale genie is now out of the bottle. Even if the current low price drives out some high-cost oil producers -- in the North Sea, Canada, Russia, Iran and offshore, as well as in America -- shale drillers can step back in whenever the price rebounds. As Mark Hill of Allegro Development Corporation argued last week, the frackers are currently experiencing their own version of Moore's law: a rapid fall in the cost and time it takes to drill a well, along with a rapid rise in the volume of hydrocarbons they are able to extract. 
And the shale revolution has yet to go global. When it does, oil and gas in tight rock formations will give the world ample supplies of hydrocarbons for decades, if not centuries. Lurking in the wings for later technological breakthroughs is methane hydrate, a seafloor source of gas that exceeds in quantity all the world's coal, oil and gas put together. 
So those who predict the imminent exhaustion of fossil fuels are merely repeating the mistakes of the U.S. presidential commission that opined in 1922 that "already the output of gas has begun to wane. Production of oil cannot long maintain its present rate." Or President Jimmy Carter when he announced on television in 1977 that "we could use up all the proven reserves of oil in the entire world by the end of the next decade." 
That fossil fuels are finite is a red herring. The Atlantic Ocean is finite, but that does not mean that you risk bumping into France if you row out of a harbor in Maine. The buffalo of the American West were infinite, in the sense that they could breed, yet they came close to extinction. It is an ironic truth that no nonrenewable resource has ever run dry, while renewable resources -- whales, cod, forests, passenger pigeons -- have frequently done so. 
The second argument for giving up fossil fuels is that new rivals will shortly price them out of the market. But it is not happening. The great hope has long been nuclear energy, but even if there is a rush to build new nuclear power stations over the next few years, most will simply replace old ones due to close. The world's nuclear output is down from 6% of world energy consumption in 2003 to 4% today. It is forecast to inch back up to just 6.7% by 2035, according the Energy Information Administration. 
Nuclear's problem is cost. In meeting the safety concerns of environmentalists, politicians and regulators added requirements for extra concrete, steel and pipework, and even more for extra lawyers, paperwork and time. The effect was to make nuclear plants into huge and lengthy boondoggles with no competition or experimentation to drive down costs. Nuclear is now able to compete with fossil fuels only when it is subsidized. 
As for renewable energy, hydroelectric is the biggest and cheapest supplier, but it has the least capacity for expansion. Technologies that tap the energy of waves and tides remain unaffordable and impractical, and most experts think that this won't change in a hurry. Geothermal is a minor player for now. And bioenergy -- that is, wood, ethanol made from corn or sugar cane, or diesel made from palm oil -- is proving an ecological disaster: It encourages deforestation and food-price hikes that cause devastation among the world's poor, and per unit of energy produced, it creates even more carbon dioxide than coal. 
Wind power, for all the public money spent on its expansion, has inched up to -- wait for it -- 1% of world energy consumption in 2013. Solar, for all the hype, has not even managed that: If we round to the nearest whole number, it accounts for 0% of world energy consumption. 
Both wind and solar are entirely reliant on subsidies for such economic viability as they have. World-wide, the subsidies given to renewable energy currently amount to roughly $10 per gigajoule: These sums are paid by consumers to producers, so they tend to go from the poor to the rich, often to landowners (I am a landowner and can testify that I receive and refuse many offers of risk-free wind and solar subsidies). 
It is true that some countries subsidize the use of fossil fuels, but they do so at a much lower rate -- the world average is about $1.20 per gigajoule -- and these are mostly subsidies for consumers (not producers), so they tend to help the poor, for whom energy costs are a disproportionate share of spending. 
The costs of renewable energy are coming down, especially in the case of solar. But even if solar panels were free, the power they produce would still struggle to compete with fossil fuel -- except in some very sunny locations -- because of all the capital equipment required to concentrate and deliver the energy. This is to say nothing of the great expanses of land on which solar facilities must be built and the cost of retaining sufficient conventional generator capacity to guarantee supply on a dark, cold, windless evening. 
The two fundamental problems that renewables face are that they take up too much space and produce too little energy. Consider Solar Impulse, the solar-powered airplane now flying around the world. Despite its huge wingspan (similar to a 747), slow speed and frequent stops, the only cargo that it can carry is the pilots themselves. That is a good metaphor for the limitations of renewables. 
To run the U.S. economy entirely on wind would require a wind farm the size of Texas, California and New Mexico combined -- backed up by gas on windless days. To power it on wood would require a forest covering two-thirds of the U.S., heavily and continually harvested. 
John Constable, who will head a new Energy Institute at the University of Buckingham in Britain, points out that the trickle of energy that human beings managed to extract from wind, water and wood before the Industrial Revolution placed a great limit on development and progress. The incessant toil of farm laborers generated so little surplus energy in the form of food for men and draft animals that the accumulation of capital, such as machinery, was painfully slow. Even as late as the 18th century, this energy-deprived economy was sufficient to enrich daily life for only a fraction of the population. 
Our old enemy, the second law of thermodynamics, is the problem here. As a teenager's bedroom generally illustrates, left to its own devices, everything in the world becomes less ordered, more chaotic, tending toward "entropy," or thermodynamic equilibrium. To reverse this tendency and make something complex, ordered and functional requires work. It requires energy. 
The more energy you have, the more intricate, powerful and complex you can make a system. Just as human bodies need energy to be ordered and functional, so do societies. In that sense, fossil fuels were a unique advance because they allowed human beings to create extraordinary patterns of order and complexity -- machines and buildings -- with which to improve their lives. 
The result of this great boost in energy is what the economic historian and philosopher Deirdre McCloskey calls the Great Enrichment. In the case of the U.S., there has been a roughly 9,000% increase in the value of goods and services available to the average American since 1800, almost all of which are made with, made of, powered by or propelled by fossil fuels. 
Still, more than a billion people on the planet have yet to get access to electricity and to experience the leap in living standards that abundant energy brings. This is not just an inconvenience for them: Indoor air pollution from wood fires kills four million people a year. The next time that somebody at a rally against fossil fuels lectures you about her concern for the fate of her grandchildren, show her a picture of an African child dying today from inhaling the dense muck of a smoky fire. 
Notice, too, the ways in which fossil fuels have contributed to preserving the planet. As the American author and fossil-fuels advocate Alex Epstein points out in a bravely unfashionable book, "The Moral Case for Fossil Fuels," the use of coal halted and then reversed the deforestation of Europe and North America. The turn to oil halted the slaughter of the world's whales and seals for their blubber. Fertilizer manufactured with gas halved the amount of land needed to produce a given amount of food, thus feeding a growing population while sparing land for wild nature. 
To throw away these immense economic, environmental and moral benefits, you would have to have a very good reason. The one most often invoked today is that we are wrecking the planet's climate. But are we? 
Although the world has certainly warmed since the 19th century, the rate of warming has been slow and erratic. There has been no increase in the frequency or severity of storms or droughts, no acceleration of sea-level rise. Arctic sea ice has decreased, but Antarctic sea ice has increased. At the same time, scientists are agreed that the extra carbon dioxide in the air has contributed to an improvement in crop yields and a roughly 14% increase in the amount of all types of green vegetation on the planet since 1980. 
That carbon-dioxide emissions should cause warming is not a new idea. In 1938, the British scientist Guy Callender thought that he could already detect warming as a result of carbon-dioxide emissions. He reckoned, however, that this was "likely to prove beneficial to mankind" by shifting northward the climate where cultivation was possible. 
Only in the 1970s and 1980s did scientists begin to say that the mild warming expected as a direct result of burning fossil fuels -- roughly a degree Celsius per doubling of carbon-dioxide concentrations in the atmosphere -- might be greatly amplified by water vapor and result in dangerous warming of two to four degrees a century or more. That "feedback" assumption of high "sensitivity" remains in virtually all of the mathematical models used to this day by the U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, or IPCC. 
And yet it is increasingly possible that it is wrong. As Patrick Michaels of the libertarian Cato Institute has written, since 2000, 14 peer-reviewed papers, published by 42 authors, many of whom are key contributors to the reports of the IPCC, have concluded that climate sensitivity is low because net feedbacks are modest. They arrive at this conclusion based on observed temperature changes, ocean-heat uptake and the balance between warming and cooling emissions (mainly sulfate aerosols). On average, they find sensitivity to be 40% lower than the models on which the IPCC relies. 
If these conclusions are right, they would explain the failure of the Earth's surface to warm nearly as fast as predicted over the past 35 years, a time when -- despite carbon-dioxide levels rising faster than expected -- the warming rate has never reached even two-tenths of a degree per decade and has slowed down to virtually nothing in the past 15 to 20 years. This is one reason the latest IPCC report did not give a "best estimate" of sensitivity and why it lowered its estimate of near-term warming. 
Most climate scientists remain reluctant to abandon the models and take the view that the current "hiatus" has merely delayed rapid warming. A turning point to dangerously rapid warming could be around the corner, even though it should have shown up by now. So it would be wise to do something to cut our emissions, so long as that something does not hurt the poor and those struggling to reach a modern standard of living. 
We should encourage the switch from coal to gas in the generation of electricity, provide incentives for energy efficiency, get nuclear power back on track and keep developing solar power and electricity storage. We should also invest in research on ways to absorb carbon dioxide from the air, by fertilizing the ocean or fixing it through carbon capture and storage. Those measures all make sense. And there is every reason to promote open-ended research to find some unexpected new energy technology. 
The one thing that will not work is the one thing that the environmental movement insists upon: subsidizing wealthy crony capitalists to build low-density, low-output, capital-intensive, land-hungry renewable energy schemes, while telling the poor to give up the dream of getting richer through fossil fuels. 
Mr. Ridley is the author of "The Rational Optimist: How Prosperity Evolves" and a member of the British House of Lords. (See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: Fossil Fuels Have Their Place, but That Must Diminish" -- WSJ March 21, 2015) Credit: By Matt Ridley 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Fossil fuels;  
Energy policy;  
Carbon;  
Alternative energy;  
Hydrocarbons;  
Coal  
Location  California; United States--US  
Title  REVIEW --- Fossil Fuels Will Save the World (Really) --- There are problems with oil, gas and  
coal, but their benefits for people -- and the planet -- are beyond dispute  
Author  Ridley, Matt  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  C.1  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Mar 14, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1663297743  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1663297743?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 249 of 376 


World News: U.S. and India Advance Nuclear Trade --- Leaders Reach 'Breakthrough', but Work Remains Before Proceeding With Sales of Reactors and Fuel 
Colleen McCain Nelson.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]26 Jan 2015: A.11. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=World+News%3A+U.S.+and+India+Advance+Nuclear+Trade+--­+Leaders+Reach+%27Breakthrough%27%2C+but+Work+Remains+Before+Proceeding+With+Sales+of+Reactors+and+Fuel&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=20 01-26&volume=&issue=&spage=A.11&au=Colleen+McCain+Nelson&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The agreement calls for a combination of insurance pools and Indian assurances that a "memorandum of law" -- essentially an executive action -- could be used to ensure that India is in compliance with international rules on liability. 

Full Text 
NEW DELHI -- President Barack Obama and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi said they made tangible progress on a range of issues with movement on civil nuclear trade, 
defense cooperation and climate change. 
With pageantry on full display, Mr. Obama appeared at India's annual Republic Day parade on Monday, a first for a U.S. leader. But the results of talks on key trade and security 
issues were more nuanced. 

Mr. Obama described a "breakthrough" in long-stalled talks on allowing U.S. firms to invest in nuclear power plants in India. But U.S. officials said work remains on 

implementation by India, and some U.S. corporate officials said they are evaluating the outcome of the talks in New Delhi. 
Both leaders touted security agreements, including renewal of a defense pact and a deal to jointly produce new defense technology. And Mr. Obama said they agreed on steps to 
promote clean energy and to tackle climate change. 

None of Sunday's discussions amounted to a major accord. Still, coming on the heels of Mr. Modi's trip to Washington in September, both leaders declared the visit an 

unqualified success. 
The burgeoning personal relationship between the two was on display from the moment of the arrival of the president and first lady Michelle Obama, when Mr. Modi departed 
from protocol and welcomed the U.S. president on the tarmac. 

Mr. Obama greeted the Indian leader with an enthusiastic handshake and a hug. 
The U.S. president later laid a wreath and planted a tree at a memorial to Mahatma Gandhi, a personal hero of Mr. Obama's. 
At a news conference, Mr. Obama joked that Mr. Modi had been received like a Bollywood star during his visit to the U.S. and said that the two leaders had compared sleep 

patterns. 
"It turns out Mr. Modi is getting even less sleep than me," Mr. Obama said. 
The two have been at an impasse over India's liability law, which would hold American suppliers responsible for accidents at the power plants they take part in building. 
The U.S.-India nuclear deal, which was supposed to clear the way for the sale of nuclear reactors and fuel to India, was signed in 2008. But the 2010 passage of an Indian law 

making suppliers liable for accidents stalled progress. 
Mr. Obama said he and Mr. Modi had achieved "breakthrough understandings" on two issues that were holding up progress, but he offered no specifics. Richard Verma, the U.S. 

ambassador to India, said teams from both countries had been working since September to resolve the liability issue and a second question of how to account for nuclear materials. The agreement calls for a combination of insurance pools and Indian assurances that a "memorandum of law" -- essentially an executive action -- could be used to ensure that 
India is in compliance with international rules on liability. 
"Now, ultimately, it's up to the companies to decide whether to go forward or not," he said. 
A spokesman for GE-Hitachi Nuclear Energy, a prospective supplier, said the firm is reviewing the results of talks Sunday. 
Mr. Obama has been pushing nations ahead of a summit in Paris later this year to reduce their carbon output, and has cited a landmark agreement with China's President Xi 

Jinping in November as a model. 

In India, however, Mr. Obama said the U.S. would share more data and help India assess and adapt to climate change, and the two countries will pursue a global agreement at 
the Paris summit. 
John Podesta, adviser to the president, said India's commitments on clean energy were more of an expansion of renewable energy use than an effort to shut down coal plants. 

William Mauldin contributed to this article. Credit: By Colleen McCain Nelson 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Climate change;  
Energy policy;  
Foreign investment;  
International relations-US -- India  
Location  United States--US; India  
People  Obama, Barack; Modi, Narendra  
Classification  9190: United States  
9179: Asia & the Pacific  
1210: Politics & political behavior  
Title  World News: U.S. and India Advance Nuclear Trade --- Leaders Reach 'Breakthrough', but Work  
Remains Before Proceeding With Sales of Reactors and Fuel  
Author  Colleen McCain Nelson  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.11  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Jan 26, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1648031116  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1648031116?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 250 of 376 


U.S. News: Methodists Rethink Investment Policies 
Audi, Tamara.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]23 Jan 2015: A.2. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+Methodists+Rethink+Investment+Policies&title=Wall+S 01-23&volume=&issue=&spage=A.2&au=Audi%2C+Tamara&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Under its human-rights guidelines, fund managers could avoid investments or divest from a company that receives more than 10% of its revenue or raw materials from countries "demonstrating a prolonged and systematic pattern of human rights violations" or "conflict-affected areas where significant human rights violations have been widely documented." 

Full Text 
The United Methodist Church plans to exert the power of its $21 billion pension fund to influence companies whose activities conflict with church positions on climate change and human rights. 
The move could result in divestment of stock in certain businesses, such as those that use coal, church investment managers said Thursday. 
"The first thing we want to do is try and engage with those companies to try to persuade them to engage in practices that are more sustainable," said David Zellner, chief investment officer of the church's General Board of Pension and Health Benefits. "If we feel those efforts are futile and we don't feel we're making any progress, that would lead to us excluding them from our investments." 
Mr. Zellner said he expects less than 1% of current investments to be affected by the policy. 
Pension funds, foundations and endowments around the U.S. are wrestling with similar decisions. Many face pressure from activists to make investments based on social concerns but are reluctant to abandon those that help generate reliable returns. 
Some universities have agreed to sell stock in fossil-fuel companies because of concerns over climate change. But prominent institutions with significant stakes in energy -­including Harvard, Yale and Brown universities -- have decided against a total withdrawal from such assets. 
More than two dozen smaller American religious endowments or foundations have made commitments to divest themselves partly or fully of fossil-fuel holdings, according to 350.org, an international activist organization advocating such moves. 
Though the Methodists' decision won't affect the bottom lines of fuel or power companies or the fund itself, it will influence the way people view the fossil-fuel industry and help "take away their social license," said 350.org spokesman Karthik Ganapathy. 
The strategy from the second-largest U.S. Protestant denomination, with 12.5 million members, is likely to be closely watched by other faith-based investors, observers said. 
Kirsty Jenkinson, the fund's sustainable-investment strategist, said researchers are analyzing the nearly 5,000 companies in which the fund invests to see which ones may be affected. 
Under the policy, the church could exclude investment in any company in the developed world that generates half its revenue from the extraction of "thermal" coal -- the type burned by electric utilities -- or a utility that generates 75% or more of its power from coal -- unless that company plans to create at least 10% of its energy from renewable sources. 
Only one-tenth of 1% of the church fund's U.S. equity investment is in companies that mine thermal coal, Mr. Zellner said. 
Under its human-rights guidelines, fund managers could avoid investments or divest from a company that receives more than 10% of its revenue or raw materials from countries "demonstrating a prolonged and systematic pattern of human rights violations" or "conflict-affected areas where significant human rights violations have been widely documented." 
The moves come after debate within the church over possibly divesting from companies with ties to Israeli operations in the West Bank over concerns about the treatment of Palestinians. The new guidelines don't mention Israel, though the church has issued statements opposing Israeli occupation and settlements of Palestinian territories in the West Bank. 
The United Methodist Church has a history of divestment to follow its social agenda. It divested $77 million of stock in firms doing business with apartheid South Africa in the 1980s. 
Daniel Fitzpatrick contributed to this article. 
Credit: By Tamara Audi 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Climate change;  
Human rights;  
Investment policy;  
Divestments;  
Pension funds;  
Social investing  
Location  United States--US  
Company / organization  Name: United Methodist Church  
NAICS: 813110  
Classification  9190: United States  
9540: Non-profit institutions  
2410: Social responsibility  
Title  U.S. News: Methodists Rethink Investment Policies  
Author  Audi, Tamara  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.2  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Jan 23, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1647560216  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1647560216?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 251 of 376 


U.S. News: Methane Curbs Planned for Oil, Gas Sector 
Harder, Amy.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]15 Jan 2015: A.6. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+Methane+Curbs+Planned+for+Oil%2C+Gas+Sector&t 01-15&volume=&issue=&spage=A.6&au=Harder%2C+Amy&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Administration officials note that methane, a primary component of natural gas, has a warming effect on the planet more than 20 times greater than carbon dioxide. Since 2005, domestic oil production has nearly doubled and natural-gas production has risen by about 50%, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration. 

Full Text 
The Obama administration unveiled plans Wednesday to regulate methane emissions from the nation's oil and natural-gas industry for the first time, a move aimed at meeting climate-change goals while not hampering the nation's energy boom. 
The Environmental Protection Agency plans to propose federal regulations to cut methane emissions from the oil and gas sector by 40% to 45% over the next decade from 2012 levels, White House and agency officials said Wednesday. 
The rules, scheduled to be proposed this summer and completed by 2016, would apply only to new or modified sites. For existing oil and gas operations, the EPA is set to rely mostly on voluntary measures to cut methane, a move backed by the industry. 
To reduce emissions, companies would have to install technology that prevents methane from being inadvertently leaked and monitor their operations for possible leaks. Many companies are already using this kind of equipment, according to industry executives and the EPA. 
The new regulations are designed to help the administration meet a commitment it made in Beijing in November to reduce U.S. greenhouse-gas emissions, as well as to bring political momentum to a United Nations summit this year where world leaders will decide whether to create a new climate agreement. 
Administration officials say the EPA rules wouldn't hamper the growth of the oil and gas industry, a big economic driver during President Barack Obama's tenure. That view is shared by at least some energy executives. 
"I don't see this as having a significant cost impact on our company at all," said Mark Boling, an executive vice president at Houston-based Southwestern Energy Co., one of the nation's largest producers of natural gas. 
The action announced Wednesday represents a sort of middle ground between what environmental groups wanted and what the oil and natural-gas industries said they could support, though the administration left the door open for more expansive regulation later on. 
While cheering the EPA's move toward regulation, some environmental groups criticized the administration for not regulating existing sources. However, the Clean Air Act would trigger regulation on existing sources eventually if the agency pursues rules affecting new sources. 
"The administration is proposing to fight methane pollution with one hand tied behind its back, not using the full range of powers under the Clean Air Act to cut these emissions," said Conrad Schneider, advocacy director of the Clean Air Task Force. 
Despite skepticism from some environmentalists, the administration has supported natural gas as an energy source in part because it puts out fewer carbon emissions than coal or oil. 
At the same time, the administration and environmental groups are increasingly worried about the effects of natural-gas use on climate change as the U.S. produces more of the fuel. Administration officials note that methane, a primary component of natural gas, has a warming effect on the planet more than 20 times greater than carbon dioxide. 
Since 2005, domestic oil production has nearly doubled and natural-gas production has risen by about 50%, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration. Methane emissions from the sector have dropped roughly 15% over that period through 2012, according to EPA data, but the agency estimates that these emissions will rise 25% over the next decade if steps aren't taken to cut them. 
Trade groups representing the oil and gas industry were more critical than some individual companies of Wednesday's announcement. 
Marty Durbin, CEO of America's Natural Gas Alliance, a trade group representing natural-gas producers including Southwestern, said he was "disappointed the administration is choosing to take a regulatory approach that will take years to implement, rather than a cooperative approach with the industry that we believe will ultimately result in greater emissions reductions in a shorter time frame." 
Reaction on Capitol Hill was split -- with Republicans, who now control both chambers of Congress, criticizing the move and vowing swift oversight, and Democrats commending the administration's actions. 
Many independent analysts concluded the EPA's actions were, for now anyway, a positive result for the industry because the rules could have been more expansive. ClearView Energy Partners, a nonpartisan energy analysis firm, said in a research note that the outcome is "generally beneficial for industry." 
Credit: By Amy Harder 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Environmental protection; Natural gas; Energy policy; Environmental regulations; Federal regulation; Climate change; Petroleum production; Petroleum industry; Methane; Emissions control  
Location  United States--US  
People  Obama, Barack  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  United Nations--UN 928120;  
Name: NAICS:  Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 924110;  
Name: NAICS:  Clean Air Task Force 813312  
Classification  4310: Regulation 8510: Petroleum industry 9190: United States  
Title  U.S. News: Methane Curbs Planned for Oil, Gas Sector  
Author  Harder, Amy  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.6  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Jan 15, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1645510844  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1645510844?accountid=14902  

Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 252 of 376 


The Myth of the Carbon Investment 'Bubble' 
Meyer, Nancy; Brinker, Lysle.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]12 Jan 2015: A.15. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=The+Myth+of+the+Carbon+Investment+%27Bubble%27&title=Wall 01-12&volume=&issue=&spage=A.15&au=Meyer%2C+Nancy%3BBrinker%2C+Lysle&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
[...]since 2008 global integrated oil and gas companies (IOCs) have traded at an average 30% discount to their intrinsic value, based on well-accepted financial analysis using cash flows and asset sales. 

Full Text 
Is there a new economic bubble -- a "carbon bubble" -- forming around oil, natural gas and coal investments? Proponents of the theory assert that the prices of fossil-fuel company stocks are substantially overvalued because their inventory of fossil-fuel resources cannot be brought to the surface and consumed if the world is to keep global emissions below certain carbon-dioxide thresholds. The argument, advanced by such groups as 350.org, Carbon Tracker Initiative and Go Fossil Free, assumes that more-stringent climate policies will render many fossil-fuel reserves "unburnable." In coming decades these reserves are at risk of being "stranded," leaving shareholders empty-handed. 
Buzzwords about "stranded" and unburnable assets are making some investors anxious. The carbon-bubble movement is also putting pressure on endowments, foundations and pension funds to divest fossil-fuel equity holdings. Yet is the carbon-based investment risk real or is it part of a cry for action on climate change? Look closely and financial-market realities deflate the carbon-bubble theory. 
For a bubble to exist, companies would need to be overvalued in the market. In fact, since 2008 global integrated oil and gas companies (IOCs) have traded at an average 30% discount to their intrinsic value, based on well-accepted financial analysis using cash flows and asset sales. Even following the recent sharp fall in oil prices, IOC companies continue to trade at a discount. This is not evidence of overconfidence or the "irrational exuberance" associated with well-known stock market, tech and real-estate bubbles. 
The carbon-bubble theory also misstates how fossil-fuel reserves are valued and how they contribute to the market capitalization of a company. The intrinsic value of an oil and gas company is based primarily on its proven reserves -- those reserves currently producing plus those with a high probability of being developed in the near-to-medium term. The value of fossil-fuel reserves is based on the strict definition promulgated by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. 
Our recent report "Deflating the 'Carbon Bubble'" finds that these proven reserves on average account for only 24% of the resource base by volume, but account for 81% of the resource base value that drives a company's total valuation. Investors pay attention to and put their money on those proven reserves. 
Carbon-bubble theorists use a much broader and hazier definition of reserves. They also include "probable" and "possible" resources with uncertain potential for development and commercialization much further into the future. By using this broad and chronologically vague definition, they sound an alarm around a "carbon risk" associated with not­well-defined resources that are not near term and that barely play a role in hydrocarbon-company valuations. 
Carbon-bubble analysis also leaves out the timing of returns. Returns from investments in proven reserves are gained and delivered to shareholders within 10-15 years for most IOCs. Demand for oil and gas is unlikely to plummet in such a short time. 
Demand is expected to rise, driven by the growing energy needs of emerging-market countries. Even under the International Energy Agency's scenario aimed at reducing carbon emissions, energy demand is expected to grow by 12% over the next 15 years, with fossil fuels meeting more than two thirds of demand in 2030. What the value of reserves not yet developed or even discovered will be in 2050 is highly uncertain -- but so is the worth that today's high-value tech stock shares will have in 2050. 
The current period of low prices is due to the rapid buildup of supply and a slowing world economy -- not to carbon-related demand destruction stimulated by stringent caps on CO2 emissions or a rapid penetration of clean energy technologies. So a scenario that envisions a swift decarbonization of the economy that leaves most commercial hydrocarbon assets "stranded" seems highly unrealistic. 
A transition to a lower carbon economy will require increased investment in renewable energy and energy efficiency over a long period. The International Energy Agency forecasts that of the nearly $40 trillion in energy investments needed to supply the world to 2035, more than 50% will be needed for fossil-fuel investments. Divestment also runs counter to the Obama administration's climate-change policy, which aims to promote more natural gas in electricity generation. 
Shaping future energy and environmental policies and the energy system for decades ahead requires informed, fact-based discussion. That is also a requirement for responsible investing by endowments, pension funds and other long-term investors. Anticipating bubbles has become an important concern, but it is just as important not to base decisions on bubbles that don't exist. 
Ms. Meyer is associate director of the energy climate strategy dialogue, and Mr. Brinker is director of oil company equity research at IHS, a research and consulting firm. 
(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: Carbon-Based Fuels Will Be Around for a Long Time" -- WSJ Jan. 17, 2015) 
Credit: By Nancy Meyer and Lysle Brinker 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Oil reserves;  
Emissions;  
Carbon;  
Environmental policy;  
Investments;  
Natural gas utilities  
Title  The Myth of the Carbon Investment 'Bubble'  
Author  Meyer, Nancy; Brinker, Lysle  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.15  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Jan 12, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1644408665  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1644408665?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 253 of 376 


U.S. News: Sen. Boxer Is Latest Democrat Set to Exit 
Peterson, Kristina; Hughes, Siobhan.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]09 Jan 2015: A.4. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+Sen.+Boxer+Is+Latest+Democrat+Set+to+Exit&title= 01-09&volume=&issue=&spage=A.4&au=Peterson%2C+Kristina%3BHughes%2C+Siobhan&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
None available. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- Democratic Sen. Barbara Boxer of California said she won't run for re-election in 2016, continuing an exodus of longtime liberal lawmakers from Congress. 
Ms. Boxer, 74 years old and a vocal Democratic presence in the Senate since 1993, announced her plans in a video interview with her grandson posted Thursday. "I am never going to retire -- the work is too important, but I will not be running for the Senate in 2016," she said. Ms. Boxer's planned departure adds to a string of retirements of influential liberals in the past two years, including fellow California Democrats Reps. George Miller and Henry 
Waxman, both of whom chaired committees during their careers and retired at the end of 2014. 
The top Democrat on the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, Ms. Boxer used her previous perch as chairman of the panel to champion environmental causes. Her 

most ambitious effort -- legislation to combat climate change by requiring companies to buy permits to release greenhouse-gas emissions -- imploded in 2010, when Democrats 
from coal and manufacturing states joined Senate Republicans to oppose it. 
Then-Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D., Nev.) never again tried to bring the plan to the Senate floor. Among her other top goals was resisting GOP attempts to limit when 

women can choose to have abortions. 

Ms. Boxer's retirement opens the door for a fierce competition for her successor in a state that has seen no turnover of senators for more than two decades. Fellow California 
Democratic Sen. Dianne Feinstein was elected to her seat in November 1992. 
Democrats said they were confident the seat would remain in their hands. President Barack Obama won more than 60% of the vote in the state in the 2012 election. 
California Attorney General Kamala Harris and Lieutenant Governor Gavin Newsom are widely seen as the leading potential candidates on the Democratic side. Others include 

former Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa, billionaire activist Tom Steyer and former state controller Steve Westly. 

On the GOP side, potential contenders include Hewlett-Packard Co. Chief Executive Meg Whitman; and two former gubernatorial candidates, Neel Kashkari, who ran the Troubled 
Asset Relief Program after the financial crisis, and Steve Poizner, who ran in 2010. 
"This could be the first of many Senate retirements thanks to their new Democrat minority status" after the 2014 election, said Andrea Bozek, spokeswoman for the National 

Republican Senatorial Committee. 

When Sens. Boxer and Feinstein arrived in the Senate, the chamber was dominated by male lawmakers, making California the first state in the country to be represented by two 
women. 
In 1991, the Senate included only two women -- Maryland Democrat Barbara Mikulski and Kansas Republican Nancy Kassebaum. 
Ms. Feinstein took office in November 1992, filling the uncompleted term of Republican Sen. Pete Wilson. Ms. Boxer arrived in January 1993, along with Democratic Sens. Patty 

Murray of Washington state and Carol Moseley Braun of Illinois. 

Alejandro Lazo contributed to this article. Credit: By Kristina Peterson and Siobhan Hughes 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Subject 	Retirement; 

Senators; 
Congressional elections; 

Environmental protection 


Location 	California 
People 	Boxer, Barbara Company / organization Name: Democratic Party NAICS: 813940 
Classification  9190: United States  
1210: Politics & political behavior  
Title  U.S. News: Sen. Boxer Is Latest Democrat Set to Exit  
Author  Peterson, Kristina; Hughes, Siobhan  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.4  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Jan 9, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1643368777  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1643368777?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 254 of 376 


U.S. News: Senate Panel Advances Bill On Pipeline 
Harder, Amy.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]09 Jan 2015: A.4. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+Senate+Panel+Advances+Bill+On+Pipeline&title=Wall 01-09&volume=&issue=&spage=A.4&au=Harder%2C+Amy&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Among the amendments tabled until that debate was a sense-of-Congress resolution from Sen. Bernie Sanders (I., Vt.), which would have put Congress on record agreeing with the scientific consensus that climate change is caused by human activity, largely by burning of coal, oil and natural gas, and that the U.S. should act swiftly to move off fossil fuels. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- Congress moved closer to a likely approval of the Keystone XL pipeline Thursday, as a Senate panel advanced the legislation and the House prepared for a vote 
on Friday. 
The Keystone bill is expected to trigger a wide-ranging debate on energy policy in both chambers, with Democrats seeking to draw attention to climate change and Republicans 
making their case that the pipeline would create jobs and solidify the nation's position as a global energy power. 

The pipeline, which would deliver up to 830,000 barrels of oil a day from Canada to the Gulf Coast, has been delayed for years and has become a political flash point in the debate about climate change and economic growth -- issues expected to be on display on the House and Senate floors. 
Both chambers are expected to pass the bill, and the White House has threatened a veto. 
The Republican-controlled Senate is scheduled to begin debating the bill on Monday, with senators allowed to offer a range of amendments to the bill, under a pledge by new 
Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R., Ky.) to open up the legislative process. 

One expected result is that senators on both sides of the aisle will offer amendments aimed at putting members of the opposing party on the record on controversial issues such 

as climate change and environmental regulations. 
Thursday's debate by the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee offered a sense of both parties' strategies on the Keystone bill. Democrats -- with the exception of 
Sen. Joe Manchin of West Virginia -- argued the pipeline would contribute to climate change and are using the debate to bring attention to the issue. 

Republicans point to the jobs they say the pipeline would create, and they also cite a review from the State Department that concluded it wouldn't have a significant impact on 

climate change. 
"The case for approving the Keystone XL pipeline is clear and obvious. The majority of Americans want this built. Let's get it built," said freshman Sen. Bill Cassidy (R., La.), who 
ousted former Sen. Mary Landrieu (D., La.) in a runoff election last month. 

The panel advanced the legislation with a 13-9 vote. 
The committee approved the bill with no amendments, with the expectation they would be voted on when the full Senate considers the bill next week. 
Among the amendments tabled until that debate was a sense-of-Congress resolution from Sen. Bernie Sanders (I., Vt.), which would have put Congress on record agreeing with 

the scientific consensus that climate change is caused by human activity, largely by burning of coal, oil and natural gas, and that the U.S. should act swiftly to move off fossil 

fuels. 
Democrats on the committee also said Congress shouldn't interfere with ongoing litigation in Nebraska over concerns of people living along the pipeline's route. Some 
Democrats also accused Republicans of being beholden to industry money. 

"Why is this bill so urgent? The answer is money," said Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D., Mass.), one of several new committee members who have helped shape a more liberal 

Democratic side of the panel. "The pipeline might not do much for the American people, but it's worth a lot to the Canadian oil industry." 
The White House said earlier this week that President Barack Obama would veto legislation authorizing the pipeline because it would interfere with a continuing review process 
at the State Department. 

Sen. Lisa Murkowski (R., Alaska), the new chairman of the energy committee, said that almost certain fate shouldn't stymie the congressional action. 

"It is unfortunate that the administration continues to stand in the way, even threatening to veto this important legislation," Ms. Murkowski said before the vote during the 
panel's first gathering under the new Congress. "I don't think that that threat should deter us as a committee, as a Senate, and really, as a Congress." 
Shortly after November's elections, the newly empowered congressional Republicans quickly signaled that they would make passing legislation approving the project a top 

priority. 
Pipeline owner TransCanada Corp., of Calgary, Alberta, first submitted its application more than six years ago to the State Department, which has jurisdiction over cross-border 
pipelines. 

The State Department has said it won't make a final decision until litigation concerning the pipeline's route in Nebraska is resolved, which is expected to occur sometime early this year. 
Credit: By Amy Harder 
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Climate change;  
Federal legislation;  
Pipelines;  
Energy policy  
Location  Canada; United States--US  
People  Landrieu, Mary; McConnell, Mitch  
Company / organization  Name: Senate  
NAICS: 921120;  
Name: TransCanada Keystone Pipeline GP Ltd  
NAICS: 486110  
Classification  9190: United States  
4320: Legislation  
1520: Energy policy  
Title  U.S. News: Senate Panel Advances Bill On Pipeline  
Author  Harder, Amy  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.4  
Publication year  2015  
Publication date  Jan 9, 2015  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1643322969  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1643322969?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  

Last updated 2017-11-21 
Database US Newsstream 
document 255 of 376 


The Clean Power Plan Is Unconstitutional 
Tribe, Laurence H.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]23 Dec 2014: A.13. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=The+Clean+Power+Plan+Is+Unconstitutional&title=Wall+Street+Jou 12-23&volume=&issue=&spage=A.13&au=Tribe%2C+Laurence+H&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Nonetheless, I recently filed comments with the Environmental Protection Agency urging the agency to withdraw its Clean Power Plan, a regulatory proposal to reduce carbon emissions from the nation's electric power plants. 

Full Text 
As a law professor, I taught the nation's first environmental law class 45 years ago. As a lawyer, I have supported countless environmental causes. And as a father and grandfather, I want to leave the Earth in better shape than when I arrived. 
Nonetheless, I recently filed comments with the Environmental Protection Agency urging the agency to withdraw its Clean Power Plan, a regulatory proposal to reduce carbon emissions from the nation's electric power plants. In my view, coping with climate change is a vital end, but it does not justify using unconstitutional means. 
Although my comments opposing the EPA's proposal were joined by a major coal producer, they reflect my professional conclusions as an independent legal scholar. I say only what I believe, whether I do so pro bono, or in this case having been retained by others. After studying the only legal basis offered for the EPA's proposed rule, I concluded that the agency is asserting executive power far beyond its lawful authority. 
The Clean Power Plan would set a carbon dioxide emission target for every state, and the EPA would command each state, within roughly a year, to come up with a package of laws to meet that target. If the agency approves the package, the state would then have to impose those laws on electric utilities and the public. 
The agency would effectively dictate the energy mix used in each state and leave the state with essentially no choice in implementing its plan. But Supreme Court precedent settled over two decades ago in New York v. United States (1992) and reaffirmed by a 7-2 vote as recently as 2012 in NFIB v. Sebelius, the ObamaCare decision, holds that such federal commandeering of state governments defeats political accountability and violates principles of federalism that are basic to our constitutional order. 
Even more fundamentally, the EPA, like every administrative agency, is constitutionally forbidden to exercise powers Congress never delegated to it in the first place. The brute fact is that the Obama administration failed to get climate legislation through Congress. Yet the EPA is acting as though it has the legislative authority anyway to re-engineer the nation's electric generating system and power grid. It does not. 
To justify the Clean Power Plan, the EPA has brazenly rewritten the history of an obscure section of the 1970 Clean Air Act. The EPA cites Section 111 of the Clean Air Act as authority for its proposal. In reality, this part of the law expressly says that it may not be used to regulate power plants where, as is the case in this situation, those plants are already being regulated as Congress contemplated under another part of the law, Section 112 -- one involving hazardous pollutants. 
Last spring, the Supreme Court read the statute in precisely that way in Utility Air Regulatory Group v. EPA. The EPA acknowledges that the Clean Air Act "appears by its terms to preclude" its proposal. That is an understatement. And the problem can't be dismissed as a quirk in the statute. The language at issue has been a feature of the Clean Air Act for decades. That's why, in 2008 (New Jersey v. EPA), the D.C. Circuit struck down a far less ambitious EPA rule under exactly the same statutory constraint involved here. Today the agency is again circumventing the checks Congress deliberately built into the Clean Air Act and distorting it to justify a wide-ranging carbon rule in a way Congress never intended or authorized. 
Frustration with congressional inaction cannot justify throwing the Constitution overboard to rescue this lawless EPA proposal -- especially when the EPA itself, through Senate testimony by its administrator, Gina McCarthy, has touted its proposal as "an investment opportunity" that isn't really "about pollution control" at all. 
Some defend the EPA's power grab on the grounds that it has the potential of averting global disaster. They remind us that, to save the Union during the Civil War, Lincoln was willing to suspend habeas corpus without the congressional authorization the Constitution requires. Today, with the benefit of hindsight, even Lincoln's decision looks more like an overreaction -- akin to the Alien and Sedition Acts and the internment of Japanese Americans after Pearl Harbor -- than a genuinely necessary response to an existential crisis. 
Justice Robert H. Jackson -- Nuremberg prosecutor and among our greatest defenders of constitutionalism and the rule of law -- joined the Supreme Court's decision denying President Harry Truman the authority to seize steel mills during the Korean conflict without the congressional authorization the Constitution required. Truman justified his shortcut by invoking national security, citing the need to prevent labor strife from disrupting the war effort. 
In Youngstown Sheet & Tube Co. v. Sawyer (1952), Justice Jackson said no. He warned of losing sight of "the balanced power structure of our Republic" and reaffirmed that "ours is a government of laws, not of men." We should heed his words today. 
Mr. Tribe is a professor of constitutional law at Harvard Law School and a University Professor at Harvard University. He was retained by Peabody Energy to provide an independent analysis of the proposed EPA rule. 
(See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: EPA Has Followed the Law on the Clean Power Plan" -- WSJ Jan. 5, 2015) 
Credit: By Laurence H. Tribe 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Environmental protection;  
Electric power plants;  
Government agencies;  
Electricity distribution;  
Emissions control;  
Constitutional law  
Company / organization  Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS: 924110  
Title  The Clean Power Plan Is Unconstitutional  
Author  Tribe, Laurence H  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.13  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Dec 23, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1639260853  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1639260853?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 256 of 376 


U.S. News: Vetting for Climate Change Is Proposed 
Harder, Amy.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]19 Dec 2014: A.4. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+Vetting+for+Climate+Change+Is+Proposed&title=Wal 12-19&volume=&issue=&spage=A.4&au=Harder%2C+Amy&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The draft guidance spells out how different agencies, such as the Interior Department, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and Army Corps of Engineers, should consider the greenhouse-gas emissions of projects that require environmental reviews under the National Environmental Policy Act. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- The White House is calling on federal agencies to consider the climate-change impact of a wide range of energy projects that require government approval. 
The draft guidelines, released Thursday by the White House's Council on Environmental Quality, are likely to affect fossil-fuel projects the most, such as pipelines, terminals that export coal and liquefied natural gas, and production of oil, natural gas and coal on public lands. 
Business and energy interests complained when the White House signaled almost three years ago that it planned such a change that it could slow federal reviews. Some congressional Democrats support the move. 
The guidance doesn't affect the Keystone XL pipeline, whose review already has considered climate change, according to an administration official. 
The draft guidance spells out how different agencies, such as the Interior Department, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and Army Corps of Engineers, should consider the greenhouse-gas emissions of projects that require environmental reviews under the National Environmental Policy Act. It also encourages agencies to consider alternatives that have smaller carbon footprints. 
If an agency determines it doesn't want to weigh such climate impacts, it must explain why not. 
Current law requires the government to consider local environmental concerns about projects, but not global problems such as climate change. 
How significant of an impact the guidelines could have will become clearer as projects go through the normal government review with this additional consideration. The White House is seeking comment for 60 days and then will issue final guidance, though it wasn't clear when that would occur. 
Credit: By Amy Harder 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Natural gas industry; 

Presidents; 
Environmental policy; 
Climate change; 
Environmental protection 


Location  United States--US  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS: Army Corps of Engineers 928110;  
Name: NAICS: Federal Energy Regulatory Commission--FERC 926110, 926130;  
Name: NAICS: TransCanada Keystone Pipeline GP Ltd 486110;  

Name: Council on Environmental Quality NAICS: 926130 
Classification  9190: United States  
1520: Energy policy  
8510: Petroleum industry  
Title  U.S. News: Vetting for Climate Change Is Proposed  
Author  Harder, Amy  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.4  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Dec 19, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1637860547  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1637860547?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 257 of 376 


World News: Coal Clouds Talks on Climate --- Nations Pushing Alternatives Vex Exporters, Those in Need of Cheap Power Source 
Mauldin, William.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]13 Dec 2014: A.8. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=World+News%3A+Coal+Clouds+Talks+on+Climate+--­+Nations+Pushing+Alternatives+Vex+Exporters%2C+Those+in+Need+of+Cheap+Power+Source&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2014-12­13&volume=&issue=&spage=A.8&au=Mauldin%2C+William&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The party is also seeking to use gains in congressional elections to roll back the Environmental Protection Agency's power-plant regulations. 

Full Text 
The push for a global climate deal is leading to calls for large cutbacks in the use of coal, provoking stiff opposition from coal producers and exporting countries. 
Representatives from nearly 200 governments wrapped up talks on Friday that began Dec. 1 in an effort to reach an agreement next year for cutting carbon dioxide emissions after 2020. The goal is eventually limiting global warming to a total of 2 degrees Celsius compared with preindustrial levels. Many developed economies, which are cutting coal's share of electricity production at home and promoting other fuels, are discouraging governments and international 
institutions from investing in new coal plants that would feed the growing energy appetite of poorer countries. 
"Coal is a source of energy that the past was based on, not a source that the future will be based on," said Susan McDade, deputy assistant administrator of the United Nations Development Program, which finances projects in developing countries. The head of the Chinese delegation noted that Tokyo wasn't following its example of submitting an early target for reduced carbon dioxide emissions, in effect highlighting 
Japan's reliance on coal after the Fukushima nuclear disaster. Japan's envoy said the coal-dependence "situation is going to be improved." 
But the anticoal rhetoric is putting coal's champions on the defensive and stirring political opposition back home, including in the U.S., as industry giants seek to promote coal as a cheap fuel for developing countries. Australian Foreign Minister Julie Bishop defended her government's explicitly pro-coal stance, saying the country has committed more than $300 million to developing low-
emissions coal technology. 
Representatives of the coal industry organized a panel in Lima aiming to dissuade investors and endowments from divesting from their fuel. 
As part of the international talks, the Obama administration is offering an emissions plan that relies heavily on reducing emissions at coal plants. Chinese President Xi Jinping 

announced his country's plan alongside President Barack Obama last month, pledging to stop increasing his country's carbon emissions by 2030 and boost the share of nonfossil 

fuels to 20% of the energy supply. Beijing also said it would cap coal use. The European Union promised deep emissions cuts in October. 
But after leading industrialized economies -- including China, the biggest source of emissions -- pledge to make cuts, some participants worry that developing countries, 
including India, will pick up the slack, potentially boosting coal consumption in inefficient plants with high levels of pollution. 

To keep richer countries' extra coal from being burned in poorer countries, the U.S., World Bank, United Nations and others are curtailing funding for coal-fired electricity. 

Coal-industry leaders say that approach is wrong, and that public money instead should go toward making coal plants cleaner and on technology to capture most of the plants' 
carbon dioxide emissions. 
"The climate negotiations really need to look for a way to help them use coal in the cleanest and most efficient way responsible," said Benjamin Sporton, acting chief executive 

of the World Coal Association in London. "Without carbon capture and storage, there's a fair chance you might struggle to achieve that 2-degrees target." 

In the U.S., Republicans this past week used legislation that would fund the government next year to hinder President Obama's efforts to limit investments by U.S. agencies in 
overseas coal-fired power plants. The party is also seeking to use gains in congressional elections to roll back the Environmental Protection Agency's power-plant regulations. 
The U.S. has doubled coal exports in the past decade, and miners around the world want to preserve their ability to extract and export coal, even if political pressure makes it 

harder to use the fuel at home. 

"The countries that have said 'no' to coal haven't been as successful economically," said Vic Svec, senior vice president of investor relations at Peabody Energy Corp., the biggest 
nonstate coal producer. 
Deck Slone, vice president of strategy and public policy for St. Louis-based coal miner Arch Coal Inc., the second-largest U.S. coal producer, says it would prefer investment in 

technology that reduces coal-related emissions instead of setting "near-term targets for lower emissions that constrain the economy." 
Overall, new government policies are expected to help slow the growth in coal demand to 0.5% a year through 2040, compared with growth of 2.5% during the past 30 years, 
according to the International Energy Agency. A global pact to meet the main climate-change goal under discussion in Lima would cut significantly more from future demand. 

Rob Taylor in Canberra, Australia, and John W. Miller in Pittsburgh contributed to this article. Credit: By William Mauldin 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Coal industry;  
Emissions control;  
Energy resources;  
Summit conferences;  
Climate change;  
Coal  
Location  Lima Peru  
Classification  9180: International  
1540: Pollution control  
1510: Energy resources  
Title  World News: Coal Clouds Talks on Climate --- Nations Pushing Alternatives Vex Exporters,  
Those in Need of Cheap Power Source  
Author  Mauldin, William  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.8  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Dec 13, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1635392056  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1635392056?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 258 of 376 


Where Will You Be When the Lights Go Out? 
Cramer, Kevin.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]11 Dec 2014: A.17. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Where+Will+You+Be+When+the+Lights+Go+Out%3F&title=Wall+St 12-11&volume=&issue=&spage=A.17&au=Cramer%2C+Kevin&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The North American Electric Reliability Corp. (NERC), a regulatory authority that monitors the U.S. and Canadian power systems, released a study on Nov. 12 concluding that the long-term reliability of the U.S. grid in some areas is already at risk. Because of rapid shifts to renewable and natural-gas generation, combined with closures of coal-fueled power plants due to existing Environmental Protection Agency regulations, "reserve margins" in the Midwest, New York and Texas have reached dangerously low levels -­meaning an increased likelihood of brownouts and blackouts in the coldest weeks of winter and the hottest days of summer. 

Full Text 
Pushback against the Obama administrations complex Clean Power Plan -- which would reduce carbon emissions from power plants by 30% in 2030 from 2005 levels -- has mostly focused on its staggering cost. NERA Economic Consulting estimates the plan will increase the nationwide average price of electricity 12% to 17% over 15 years. But a pair of recent reports present an even more ominous picture. Not only will electricity cost more, Americans might not be able to get it when they most need it. 
The North American Electric Reliability Corp. (NERC), a regulatory authority that monitors the U.S. and Canadian power systems, released a study on Nov. 12 concluding that the long-term reliability of the U.S. grid in some areas is already at risk. Because of rapid shifts to renewable and natural-gas generation, combined with closures of coal-fueled power plants due to existing Environmental Protection Agency regulations, "reserve margins" in the Midwest, New York and Texas have reached dangerously low levels -­meaning an increased likelihood of brownouts and blackouts in the coldest weeks of winter and the hottest days of summer. 
This analysis of the grids long-term reliability left out the potential impact of the EPAs proposed Clean Power Plan, which would force even more coal-fueled power plants to close. A separate NERC report, released on Nov. 5, pointed out that the plans compliance deadlines for reducing carbon emissions were not realistic when considering how long it takes to build new gas pipelines and electricity transmission lines necessary for new and existing renewable and natural-gas plants to serve customers previously served by coal plants. 
More precisely, NERC pointed out that the EPA's estimates for continuous 1.5% energy efficiency gains each year are unsubstantiated, specifically stating, "this sustainability is not supported by any peer-reviewed or technical studies of energy efficiency potential." This creates an incentive to close even more coal-fueled power plants to meet carbon-dioxide reduction requirements not actually attained by energy efficiency, posing even greater risks to the availability of electricity throughout the U.S. 
These warnings are worth paying attention to. NERC is not a special-interest group. It is a nonprofit, nonpartisan body of experts in the engineering and operation of power grids. They are the architects of the miracle we take for granted every time we flip a switch and electricity instantaneously appears from generating sources hundreds of miles away. 
EPA personnel are environmental regulators, not electrical engineers, and have no experience in or knowledge of the construction and operation of power grids. But it is inexcusable that the agency failed to heed the advice of those who do have such expertise. The administration's Clean Power Plan will remake an enormous sector of the U.S. economy, affecting almost every industry and every consumer. It is irresponsible in the extreme that this plan has been put forth without due consideration of the risk it poses to the reliability of the nation's electricity supply. 
Billions of dollars and decades of time have been invested in building an electricity infrastructure that undeniably works. Yet the EPA would replace it with expensive and uncertain measures to accomplish reductions in greenhouse-gas emissions that won't even move the needle on climate change globally. The consequences could be catastrophic if the transition results in blackouts and brownouts during extreme weather conditions or other emergencies when electricity is needed most. 
Of course, the anti-carbon crowd and the current EPA bureaucrats won't be held accountable if the Clean Power Plan disrupts the future reliability of the grid. In any case, this disruption won't be felt for several years, most likely when the Obama administration is history. But whoever is occupying the Oval Office, regardless of political party, will not find it a pleasant place to be when the lights start flickering. 
Mr. Cramer, a Republican, is a U.S. congressman from North Dakota. As a public-service commissioner in North Dakota from 2003-12, he regulated the electrical utilities industry. 
Credit: By Kevin Cramer 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Emissions control; 
Environmental protection; 
Natural gas; 

Coal-fired power plants; Energy efficiency; Energy policy; Electricity distribution 
Location  United States--US  
Company / organization  Name: North American Electric Reliability Corp  
NAICS: 813910;  
Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS: 924110  
Title  Where Will You Be When the Lights Go Out?  
Author  Cramer, Kevin  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.17  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Dec 11, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1634953368  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1634953368?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 259 of 376 


World News: U.S. and EU Wrangle Over Binding Emissions Targets 
Mauldin, William.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]10 Dec 2014: A.14. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=World+News%3A+U.S.+and+EU+Wrangle+Over+Binding+Emissions+T 12-10&volume=&issue=&spage=A.14&au=Mauldin%2C+William&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The European Union made it clear from the start of talks here that the climate deal set for completion next year should be airtight under international law, with legal consequences if countries stray from commitments. 

Full Text 
LIMA -- Officials from nearly 200 countries working to negotiate a climate-change agreement are wrestling with the most basic question: whether key sections of the final pact should be legally binding. 
The European Union made it clear from the start of talks here that the climate deal set for completion next year should be airtight under international law, with legal consequences if countries stray from commitments. 
"The European Union favors an agreement with binding greenhouse-gas reduction targets for all countries," said Miguel Arias Canete, the EU's energy and climate commissioner. 
The U.S., the other giant economy active in the negotiations, is backing a hybrid approach developed by New Zealand. Under that plan, countries would be required to have an emission-cutting plan that would be enforced through domestic laws but not be binding under international law. 
"We think that there's a lot of merit in that idea," said Todd Stern, the U.S. special envoy for climate change. 
Legal wrangling over emissions targets is one among many divisive issues negotiators are tackling at a new round of climate talks organized by the United Nations. Countries are also debating everything from the financing of expensive shifts to more renewable energy use to the responsibilities of rich versus poor countries for adapting to climate change. 
On the thorny legal questions, the U.S., EU and other participants are looking for a solution that would persuade ambivalent countries to sign up to cut as much carbon as possible over decades, while minimizing the risk of a political backlash that would undo that commitment. 
The 1997 Kyoto Protocol ran into trouble in North America when the U.S. never ratified it and Canada later withdrew. The accord also didn't require cuts from China, now the biggest emitter of carbon dioxide. 
The U.S. is counting on the idea that a more-relaxed framework will bring everyone to the table and that countries will come under pressure at home and abroad to cut more carbon voluntarily if their commitments fall short or they fail to abide by them. 
The Obama administration is looking to do its own legal heavy lifting through domestic law, including federal regulations on power plants and vehicle fuel efficiency. Republicans have denounced the power-plant rules, a key part of the U.S. offering in the current talks, as a "war on coal" and vowed to fight them. 
The most divisive legal issues are unlikely to be worked out until national leaders get involved at meetings next year, officials say. 
"That's such a crunchtime issue that it's going to be difficult to see that being resolved here in Lima," said Elina Bardram, the EU's senior climate negotiator. 
Credit: By William Mauldin 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Negotiations; 
Emissions control; 
International law; 

International relations-US; 

Climate change 


Location 	United States--US 
Company / organization 	Name: European Union 

NAICS: 926110, 928120 


Classification  9180: International  
1210: Politics & political behavior  
Title  World News: U.S. and EU Wrangle Over Binding Emissions Targets  
Author  Mauldin, William  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.14  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Dec 10, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1634670938  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1634670938?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 260 of 376 


Declarations: Can the GOP Find Unity and Purpose? 
Noonan, Peggy.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]06 Dec 2014: A.13. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Declarations%3A+Can+the+GOP+Find+Unity+and+Purpose%3F&titl 12-06&volume=&issue=&spage=A.13&au=Noonan%2C+Peggy&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The new Republican majority should try, within the limits imposed by not holding the executive branch, to make progress on their own. Early on they should take a good, small bill, an economic measure that Republicans will and moderate Democrats can support. 

Full Text 
Take no bait. Act independently and in accord with national priorities. Cause no pointless trouble. If there's trouble, it should have a clear, understandable, defendable purpose. 
That is general advice for the new Republican congressional majority. They will be proving every day they're a serious governing alternative to the Democratic-dominated establishment that has run Washington for six years. 
The Republicans are being told they are a deeply divided party. True enough. But another way to look at it may prove more pertinent: "My father's house has many mansions." The GOP is showing early signs of actually gathering together again a functioning coalition. The white working class, according to the last election, has joined, at least for now. Coalitions are messy; they have many, often opposing, pieces. FDR's included New York socialists, Southern segregationists, Dust Bowl Okies and West Virginia coal miners. But politics is a game of addition and Republicans are adding. They may owe it only to President Obama, but still: His leadership has been an emanation of progressive thought. And a coalition formed by reaction and rejection is still a coalition. 
Republicans on the Hill now by habit see their adversaries as The Monolith. But it is the Democrats who are increasingly riven, divided and unhappy. 
They are rocked by defeat, newly confused as to their own meaning. They're disappointed with each other, and angry. They know Harry Reid is a poor face of the party, a small-town undertaker who never gets around to telling you the cost of the casket. They have little faith in the strategic and tactical leadership coming from the White House. They recognize the president as an albatross around their necks. Nancy Pelosi is an attractive, noncredible partisan who just natters wordage. 
That's what they've got: an undertaker, an albatross, a natterer. 
Democrats are individually trying to place themselves right with their own base, which grows more leftishly restive and is losing them the center. They're trying to figure out how to cleave to that base while remaining politically viable. 
The sophisticated and sober-minded GOP class should understand that the national press is dying to impose a story line: extremist, intransigent ideologues come to Washington to defy the president. It's important to them that the Republicans be the bad guys. If the president can't quite be painted as the good guy, at least he can be portrayed as the more nuanced and interesting figure, the historic president beset by smaller foes in his last two years. 
But the president isn't the story. That's what the Republicans need to know. The story is what they make of their new power. 
The president wants to be the story. He wants to be the matador taunting the bull with the red cape. He wants to draw the GOP into strange, dramatic impasses. They should not snort, paw the ground and charge. They should shake their heads, smile and gesture to the crowd: "Can you believe this guy?" 
Americans have moved on. They want results from the people they just elected. The new Republican majority should try, within the limits imposed by not holding the executive branch, to make progress on their own. They shouldn't be drawn into the president's drama, they should act independently. They're telling their own story. They should comport themselves as if they know the difference between yesterday and tomorrow. 
Early on they should take a good, small bill, an economic measure that Republicans will and moderate Democrats can support. They should try very hard to do what the president didn't do: show bipartisan respect, work with the other side, put out your hand. They should get that bill briskly through the House and Senate. If the president vetoes it, they should attempt to override. If they succeed, they've made good law. If they don't, they try again. In time people will see the culprit, the impediment. 
Meantime the president has disasters on his hands. His executive action on immigration, seen by many as daring and clever, may not prove clever. It is assumed he scored points for his party, or his legacy, by granting a form of amnesty to millions of illegal immigrants. But did he? In making that move he removed one of the Republican Party's problems. They were split on immigration, their adversaries said the reason was racism. The whole issue roiled the Republican base. 
Now the president has taken it out of their hands. And he has united them in their condemnation of the manner in which he did it. 
At the same time the president took an issue that was a daily, agitating mobilizer of his base and removed it as a factor. He took the kettle off the heat -- but that kettle had produced a lot of steam that provided energy to his party. 
Now the president has to implement his directive, and implementation has never been his strong suit. He has to tamp down grievances from those who came here legally or are waiting in line. He has to answer immigration activists who think they got too little. He has to face all the critics who will experience and witness the downside of his action on the border. 
He took an issue that was a problem for Republicans, and made it a problem for Democrats. That may well prove a political mistake of the first order. 
Last week New York's Chuck Schumer, the third most senior Democrat in the Senate, spoke of a different political mistake. In a speech, he said the Democrats were trounced in 2014 because Mr. Obama wrongly staked everything on ObamaCare. Democrats thus "blew the opportunity" the voters gave them in 2008: "Americans were crying out for an end to the recession, for better wages and more jobs, not for changes in their health care. . . . Had we started more broadly, the middle class would have been more receptive to the idea that President Obama wanted to help them." 
After Mr. Schumer came Sen. Tom Harkin of Iowa, one of the architects of the ObamaCare law, who told Alexander Bolton of the Hill that it was probably too "complicated. . . . I look back and say we should have either done it the correct way or not done anything at all." 
Then came the reliably interesting former Sen. James Webb of Virginia, a possible presidential candidate. He told a press group in Richmond that the Democratic Party has lost its way. It lost white working-class voters by becoming "a party of interest groups." As reported in the Washington Post, Mr. Webb said: "The Democratic Party has lost the message that made it such a great party for so many years . . . take care of working people, take care of the people who have no voice in the corridors of power, no matter their race, ethnicity or any other reason." 
He is exactly right. In the Obama era the Democratic Party has gone from being a party of people to a party of issues, such as global warming, and the pressure groups -- and billionaires -- that push them. 
It has become bloodless. 
You know how Republicans should be feeling, for the first time in 10 years? Confident. For all their problems, they still have a pulse. 
Credit: By Peggy Noonan 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Presidents; 
Bills; 

Policy making; 
Political behavior 


Location 	New York 
People 	Pelosi, Nancy; Reid, Harry; Schumer, Charles E; Obama, Barack 
Company / organization 	Name: Republican Party 

NAICS: 813940 


Title 	Declarations: Can the GOP Find Unity and Purpose? 
Author 	Noonan, Peggy 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.13 
Publication year 	2014 
Publication date 	Dec 6, 2014 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 	00999660 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	Commentary 
ProQuest document ID  1632441139  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1632441139?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 261 of 376 


World News: Ambition Meets Reluctance at Climate Talks 
Mauldin, William.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]04 Dec 2014: A.8. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=World+News%3A+Ambition+Meets+Reluctance+at+Climate+Talks&title 12-04&volume=&issue=&spage=A.8&au=Mauldin%2C+William&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
In the U.S., next year's Republican Senate majority is expected to try to stop President Obama from using Environmental Protection Agency rules to limit power-plant emissions, a key part of the administration's offering in the global talks. 

Full Text 
The U.S., Europe and China are about to confront the gulf between their carbon-cutting ambitions and those of less industrialized countries. 
President Barack Obama and Chinese President Xi Jinping surprised many observers last month by jointly unveiling long-range plans to curb carbon-dioxide emissions. The move followed a pledge by the other big carbon-emitting economy, the European Union, to reduce greenhouse gases as part of a new round of United Nations-led climate negotiations. 
Those talks have begun this week in Lima, Peru, and will continue on a higher level next week. But officials and experts say there is little evidence most other developing economies will follow China's lead. The talks are supposed to produce an agreement in Paris next year. 
"The risk is a revolt by the South against the North, saying that, 'You caused this problem and now we're going to pay the price,' " said Paul Bledsoe, a former U.S. official and climate expert at the German Marshall Fund, a U.S.-based think tank. 
The rift began with the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, which put the onus of emissions reductions on the highly industrialized countries that relied heavily on fossil fuels for many decades. 
Since then, rapidly emerging economies with big populations and expanding middle classes -- China and India, above all -- have overtaken many developed counterparts in burning coal and other fuels that scientists have linked to global warming. 
Many of these countries, including a number of energy producers, don't want to imperil their growth if richer countries can make the cuts needed to keep global temperatures from rising more than two degrees Celsius above preindustrial levels over coming decades -- a goal world leaders set at the 2009 Copenhagen climate summit. 
Resistance from some developing countries has spoiled other rounds of talks and could do the same in Lima, which officials describe as the launch of the most promising set of negotiations in years. 
American and other officials are seeking to blur the old, two-way standoff by encouraging every nation to develop its own emissions-reduction plan to fit its growth expectations and abilities. The major economies are expected to submit detailed plans by March that will then stir wider domestic and international debates. 
The stakes are high. Environmentalists warn inadequate results could lead to higher sea levels and widespread droughts, while opponents in the U.S. and other countries say stricter emission rules could sap economic growth and harm the energy industry. 
In the U.S., next year's Republican Senate majority is expected to try to stop President Obama from using Environmental Protection Agency rules to limit power-plant emissions, a key part of the administration's offering in the global talks. 
One country clearly on edge over the new push -- and China's aggressive targets -- is India. Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government is examining a strategy of clearly differentiating India from China and arguing for a much later period for reaching peak emissions, officials say. 
Credit: By William Mauldin 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Environmental protection; 
Carbon; 
Global warming; 
Summit conferences; 

Climate change; 
International relations 


Location 	Peru; United States--US; India; China; Europe 
People  Obama, Barack; Xi Jinping  
Company / organization  Name:  United Nations--UN  
NAICS:  928120;  

Name: European Union 

NAICS: 926110, 928120 


Classification  9180: International  
1520: Energy policy  
1210: Politics & political behavior  
Title  World News: Ambition Meets Reluctance at Climate Talks  
Author  Mauldin, William  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.8  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Dec 4, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1629872989  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1629872989?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 262 of 376 


U.S. News: EPA Set to Tighten Ozone Standards 
Harder, Amy.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]28 Nov 2014: A.4. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+EPA+Set+to+Tighten+Ozone+Standards&title=Wall+S 11-28&volume=&issue=&spage=A.4&au=Harder%2C+Amy&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
In January, the agency intends to issue a final rule controlling carbon emissions from new power plants, a precursor to the agency's parallel standard cutting carbon from power plants already in operation, which the EPA plans to complete next summer. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration is set to release energy regulations over the coming weeks that will prompt push-back from industry and lawmakers in advance of a Republican-controlled Congress next year. 
On Wednesday, the Environmental Protection Agency proposed lower limits for ground-level ozone, or smog, in the atmosphere, setting off a nearly yearlong regulatory process for setting a new standard. Public-health and environmental groups say the limits are essential in preventing a range of respiratory diseases. Businesses say it could be the costliest regulation in U.S. history. 
By year's end, the administration plans to release at least three other regulations, including one from the EPA regulating coal ash, a byproduct of coal-fired electricity, and two from the Interior Department setting standards for Arctic oil and natural-gas drilling, and hydraulic fracturing on federal lands. 
The EPA also is expected to decide in December to what extent it will regulate emissions of methane, a potent greenhouse gas that is inadvertently emitted during the production and transmission of natural gas. In January, the agency intends to issue a final rule controlling carbon emissions from new power plants, a precursor to the agency's parallel standard cutting carbon from power plants already in operation, which the EPA plans to complete next summer. 
Driven by various factors, including court-enforced deadlines and presidential directives, the initiatives will touch on a broad swath of the economy, especially the utility, oil and natural-gas industries. It also advances an ambitious environmental and climate-change agenda that President Barack Obama hopes to make a legacy of his time in the White House. 
Republicans on Capitol Hill have vowed to pass legislation to slow or stop altogether several EPA rules, including the ozone standard announced this week, which could prompt presidential vetoes. 
"The Obama administration hasn't even fully implemented -- or seen the consequences of -- existing rules, yet here we see another effort to slow job growth and send jobs overseas," Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R., Ky.), said in a statement after the ozone announcement. 
The EPA's ozone proposal would limit ozone to between 65 and 70 parts per billion in the air and sought comment on a standard as strict as 60 parts per billion, in line with what an independent scientific advisory panel recommended earlier this year. The current level, established in 2008 by the George W. Bush administration, is 75 parts per billion, though some regions of the country still aren't complying with the 1997 level set at 84 parts per billion. The agency said it will take comment on keeping the standard at the current level. 
The EPA estimates the cost to businesses and localities to meet the ozone standard would range from $3 billion to $15 billion in 2025 and the monetary value of the public-health benefits range between $6.4 billion and $19 billion in 2025. 
These estimates are significantly less than what the EPA proposed in 2011, when it said costs could reach $90 billion and public-health benefits could reach $100 billion. 
Credit: By Amy Harder 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Environmental regulations; 

Ozone 


Location 	United States--US 
Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 

NAICS: 924110 


Classification  9190: United States  
1540: Pollution control  
4310: Regulation  
Title  U.S. News: EPA Set to Tighten Ozone Standards  
Author  Harder, Amy  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.4  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Nov 28, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1628429214  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1628429214?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 263 of 376 


Notable & Quotable 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]28 Nov 2014: A.15. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Notable+%26amp%3B+Quotable&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=0099 11-28&volume=&issue=&spage=A.15&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Google's boldest energy move was an effort known as RE<C, which aimed to develop renewable energy sources that would generate electricity more cheaply than coal-fired power plants do. 

Full Text 
Google engineers Ross Koningstein and David Fork, writing for IEEE Spectrum, Nov. 18: 
Starting in 2007, Google committed significant resources to tackle the world's climate and energy problems. A few of these efforts proved very successful: Google deployed some of the most energy-efficient data centers in the world, purchased large amounts of renewable energy, and offset what remained of its carbon footprint. 
Google's boldest energy move was an effort known as RE<C, which aimed to develop renewable energy sources that would generate electricity more cheaply than coal-fired power plants do. The company announced that Google would help promising technologies mature by investing in start-ups and conducting its own internal R&D. Its aspirational goal: to produce a gigawatt of renewable power more cheaply than a coal-fired plant could, and to achieve this in years, not decades. 
Unfortunately, not every Google moon shot leaves Earth orbit. In 2011, the company decided that RE<C was not on track to meet its target and shut down the initiative. The two of us, who worked as engineers on the internal RE<C projects, were then forced to reexamine our assumptions. 
At the start of RE<C, we had shared the attitude of many stalwart environmentalists: We felt that with steady improvements to today's renewable energy technologies, our society could stave off catastrophic climate change. We now know that to be a false hope -- but that doesn't mean the planet is doomed . . . . 
Trying to combat climate change exclusively with today's renewable energy technologies simply won't work; we need a fundamentally different approach. 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject Notable & quotable (wsj) 
People Koningstein, Ross; Fork, David 
Title Notable & Quotable 
Author Anonymous 
Publication title Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages A.15 
Publication year 2014 
Publication date Nov 28, 2014 
Publisher Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Feature  
ProQuest document ID  1628429210  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1628429210?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 264 of 376 


Top Court To Weigh Pollution Standards 
Harder, Amy; Kendall, Brent.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]26 Nov 2014: A.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Top+Court+To+Weigh+Pollution+Standards&title=Wall+Street+Journal& 11-26&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Harder%2C+Amy%3BKendall%2C+Brent&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The U.S. Supreme Court on Tuesday said it would review the nation's first-ever standards requiring power plants to reduce mercury emissions and other toxic air pollutants, taking up a case with implications for President Barack Obama's broader environmental agenda. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- The U.S. Supreme Court on Tuesday said it would review the nation's first-ever standards requiring power plants to reduce mercury emissions and other toxic air pollutants, taking up a case with implications for President Barack Obama's broader environmental agenda. 
The high court accepted several challenges to the rules brought by the utility industry and a coalition of nearly two dozen states, including those where utilities rely on coal for most power generation. 
The court will hear arguments in the case in the spring and is likely to rule in June 2015, as the Obama administration is planning to put the final touches on a separate proposal to cut carbon-dioxide emissions from existing power plants. 
The high court's decision to review one of Mr. Obama's signature environmental achievements comes at a pivotal time. On Wednesday, the Environmental Protection Agency intends to propose an updated national standard for ground-level ozone, commonly known as smog, which is based at least in part on enforcement of the mercury rule. 
The high court will decide if the EPA should have considered how much the rules would cost utilities, addressing a recurring complaint by companies about government regulations. The power companies and states said the rules would add $9.6 billion in annual costs to the utility industry. The EPA should have taken those costs into account, they said. 
The EPA has said the public-health benefit of reducing the pollutants amounts to between $37 billion and $90 billion a year, far outweighing any industry costs. The agency also has said it believes the rule could prevent up to 11,000 premature deaths each year. 
"We are disappointed in the court's decision, but we are confident that EPA acted properly in regulating harmful toxic air pollution from power plants," EPA spokeswoman Liz Purchia said in a written statement. 
The outcome of the case could affect other EPA initiatives, including the separate proposed rule cutting carbon emissions from the same set of nearly 600 fossil-fuel power plants, which is underpinned by a 2007 Supreme Court ruling in favor of the EPA. If the court strikes down the entire or significant parts of the mercury rule, it could limit EPA's ability to push forward on other regulations, some energy analysts said. 
"Does it make EPA go away? No, but it could make some of their plans a little less ambitious," said Christine Tezak, a managing director of ClearView Energy Partners, a nonpartisan policy-analysis firm. "The agency's ability to be aggressive could be constrained by a need to give greater weight to cost impacts." 
The EPA, in an earlier version of the ozone proposal, estimated it could cost up to $90 billion annually. The EPA also intends in January to issue final rules cutting carbon emissions from new power plants and parallel standards for existing plants next summer. Both also mean increased costs for businesses, though less than the mercury and ozone rules. 
The EPA's mercury rule, adopted in 2012 and scheduled to take effect in April for existing power plants, requires coal and oil-fired plants to cut most of their emissions of mercury, a neurotoxin the EPA says is particularly harmful for children, unborn babies and women of childbearing age. 
Power plants are the dominant emitters of mercury in the U.S., according to the EPA. The rules require coal-fired utilities to install so-called scrubber technology, which is widely available, to reduce air emissions. The government has granted many utilities a year extension to comply with the rule. 
"The EPA has expressly refused to consider the cost of its regulation, which will result in rate increases for citizens across the country, and threatens the reliability of the electricity grid by forcing the closure of many power plants," Michigan Attorney General Bill Schuette, a Republican, said in a written statement. Michigan is a lead state plaintiff in the case. 
The mercury case is the latest in a series of consequential environmental lawsuits that have landed at the Supreme Court during the tenure of Chief Justice John Roberts. The EPA has won more than it has lost. 
The high court, in its 2007 ruling, allowed the agency to regulate carbon dioxide and other gases associated with climate change. This June, the court said the EPA overreached in claiming the authority to impose greenhouse-gas controls on small emitters, but it said the agency could require controls at power plants and other large pollution sources. 
In another case this year, the Obama administration scored a notable victory when the justices revived an EPA program that sought to limit power-plant emissions blowing across state lines, called the cross-state air pollution rule. 
The administration also won an important victory in April when a divided U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit upheld the mercury rules, saying the agency acted reasonably in crafting them. 
The cumulative effect of these regulations, coupled with low natural-gas prices, is compelling some utilities to close coal-fired power plants. Between 2012 and 2020, about 60 gigawatts of coal-fired capacity are projected to shut down, according to U.S. Energy Information Administration data published earlier this year. U.S. utilities have more than 1,000 gigawatts in capacity. 
"A lot of utilities weren't that concerned about the cross-state rule because MATS [the mercury rule] was already requiring them to install scrubbers," said Brian Potts of Foley & Lardner LLP in Madison, Wis., who represents utilities but doesn't have any clients involved in the mercury case. "But without MATS (or with a delay in MATS), the cross-state rule could become more significant." 
Akron, Ohio, utility FirstEnergy, which is a plaintiff in the case as part of its membership in the Utility Air Regulatory Group, is currently installing technology to comply with the mercury rule, though the high court's ruling may change its plans, spokeswoman Jennifer Young said. 
The court's action Tuesday extends a saga that dates back more than two decades. Congress first required the EPA to issue regulations in 1990, but the agency's efforts had been stalled for years due to several factors. 
(See related article: "EPA Is Set to Propose A New Limit on Ozone" -- WSJ November 26, 2014) 
Credit: By Amy Harder and Brent Kendall 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Power plants; 
Environmental protection; 
Air pollution; 

Carbon; 
Costs; 
Pollutants; 
Ozone; 
Electricity distribution; 
Coal; 
Emission standards; 
Industrial plant emissions 


People  Obama, Barack  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 924110;  
Name: NAICS:  Supreme Court-US 922110  

Title  Top Court To Weigh Pollution Standards  
Author  Harder, Amy; Kendall, Brent  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.1  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Nov 26, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  

Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1627862323  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1627862323?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 265 of 376 


Big Issues in Energy (A Special Report) --- Should the U.S. Take Unilateral Action on Climate Policy? 
Levi, Michael; Morriss, Andrew P.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]24 Nov 2014: R.2. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Big+Issues+in+Energy+%28A+Special+Report%29+--­+Should+the+U.S.+Take+Unilateral+Action+on+Climate+Policy%3F&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2014-11­24&volume=&issue=&spage=R.2&au=Levi%2C+Michael%3BMorriss%2C+Andrew+P&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Unilateral policies adopted so far include the Environmental Protection Agency's draft rule proposed in June that seeks dramatic cuts in power-plant carbon emissions by 2030. [...]if the U.S. takes action on climate change, it gains crucial credibility with the leaders and citizens of those countries, regardless of what China does. 

Full Text 
Scientists generally agree that climate change is a real problem, exacerbated by the burning of oil, natural gas and coal. But, for better or worse, it's politicians and voters who will decide what to do about it. 
Efforts to strike a global pact on carbon-emission reductions are at a stalemate over disagreement as to what sacrifices, if any, each nation is willing to undertake. The U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change warns that without concerted action soon, the world risks irreversible environmental damage and widespread suffering. 
The U.S. and China recently signed an agreement to cut greenhouse-gas emissions. Based upon previously announced commitments from both nations, the deal is an effort to jump-start the stalled global talks. The U.S. agreed to cut carbon pollution as much as 28% below 2005 levels by 2025, and China said it would stop increasing CO2 emissions by 2030, or earlier, while cutting fossil fuels to about 80% of Chinese energy use. 
Even before the agreement with China, President Barack Obama has argued that the U.S. should take the lead to reduce domestic greenhouse-gas emissions. Unilateral policies adopted so far include the Environmental Protection Agency's draft rule proposed in June that seeks dramatic cuts in power-plant carbon emissions by 2030. 
But critics of unilateral action say the U.S. will pay too high a price without significantly moving the needle on climate change. Similarly, some say the deal with Beijing requires sacrifices only from the U.S. Supporters of unilateral action, meanwhile, say that pressure can still be brought to bear on China if the U.S. leads by example, and that cutting emissions is too important to wait. 
Yes: The Benefits Go 
Well Beyond Helping 
The Environment 
By Michael Levi 
Reducing the risks of climate change will require serious action from every major greenhouse-gas emitter. The recent joint U.S.-China announcement of emissions-cutting targets, even if lacking in many details and without legal force, is a good step in that direction. Indeed, the U.S. shouldn't sit on its hands until a global treaty is signed. There's a lot it can and should be doing regardless of how others act. 
Think about it this way: Climate change isn't an all-or-nothing problem. U.S. cuts will lower global greenhouse-gas concentrations -- and risks -- regardless of how much carbon dioxide China emits. Done smartly, they also will further our economic and global strategic interests. 
If the U.S. can eliminate a ton of emissions for, say, $5, and in the process reduce expected climate damage by, say, $50, that's money well worth spending. It doesn't matter that it won't "solve" the climate problem once and for all, or that China or India might not reduce their emissions by the same amount at the same time. The U.S. action would still yield benefits well in excess of the cost. 
Certain unilateral actions would yield important benefits well beyond climate change. Scholars at the think tank Resources for the Future estimate that emissions-cutting policies targeting U.S. power plants could yield public-health benefits -- excluding climate change -- more than twice their costs. One can debate the specific numbers while still accepting the central implication: Well-designed climate policies often have ancillary benefits that alone make them worthwhile. 
Opponents of unilateral action say it is giving away all of our bargaining chips. But there is a lot the U.S. can do alone while negotiating to do still more if others step up strongly. We could offer incentives for novel renewable- and nuclear-energy technologies, for instance, which would help cut costs of low-carbon technologies. Access to better low-carbon tech could be a good carrot for countries holding back on multilateral climate efforts. 
The U.S. is also competing with other major powers (notably China) for influence around the world, including on issues of global warming. Many of the places where this is playing out most acutely are particularly worried about climate change: Asian countries greatly exposed to extreme weather, and rising sub-Saharan African players such as Kenya whose economies depend heavily on agriculture. These countries' leaders and people judge the U.S. and its rivals in part by how much they appear to share their concerns. Thus, if the U.S. takes action on climate change, it gains crucial credibility with the leaders and citizens of those countries, regardless of what China does. Conversely, if China is seen as taking action while the U.S. isn't, Washington will lose essential influence abroad. 
There are, of course, limits to what the U.S. should do alone. Policy makers should scrutinize unilateral and multilateral actions alike to make sure their benefits exceed their costs. Many policies, such as sustaining corn-ethanol subsidies or blocking well-designed oil pipelines, make no sense regardless of whether the U.S. pursues them alone or with others. 
But leaving most of our emissions cuts to the future will force us to cut far more rapidly -- itself a costly endeavor. Smart policy will balance the benefits of cutting smoothly, starting now, with taking advantage of falling costs for low-carbon technologies over time. 
We can reasonably debate the wisdom of particular climate policies. What we shouldn't do is hand the keys to other countries by refusing to act until they do the same thing as us. There's ample reason to pursue sensible climate policies, whatever leaders in Beijing or Brussels choose. 
Mr. Levi is David M. Rubenstein senior fellow for energy and the environment and director of the Maurice R. Greenberg Center for Geoeconomic Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations. He is the author of "The Power Surge: Energy, Opportunity, and the Battle for America's Future." He can be reached at reports@wsj.com. 
No: It Would Cost 
A Lot of Money -­
And Achieve Nothing 
By Andrew P. Morriss 
With no global agreement on climate change in sight, President Obama argues the U.S. should act unilaterally to cut our greenhouse-gas emissions. This would be a mistake. 
To effectively fight climate change, the total reduction of emissions globally is what matters, not cuts by a single country. Without global buy-in, one country acting alone has the same impact as doing nothing. No feasible reduction by the U.S. can have a meaningful impact on global greenhouse-gas levels without the participation of the European Union and China, where rapid economic growth has dramatically increased emissions. Even cutting U.S. levels 25% would reduce world emissions by a total of less than 4%. Growth in China at current rates would replace those reductions in less than two years. 
The recent agreement between the U.S. and China doesn't change this. China agreed only to peaking carbon emissions by 2030, when forecasts already showed its emissions would peak. As Bloomberg View columnist Megan McArdle summed up the agreement, it's not clear "that the delta between this and 'nothing' is that big." 
Some argue that unilateral U.S. efforts are worth pursuing even if they don't solve the global problem. But according to the group that sets emissions-reductions targets for the world, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, global disaster is a certainty unless we get global cooperation. By this reasoning, whatever dollar value or societal benefit one assigns to unilateral U.S. action, what is it really worth if it won't prevent a global catastrophe? 
U.S. emissions have decreased in recent years due to the recession and the increasing use of natural gas. But we haven't done any of the hard parts of reducing emissions -­steps that will eliminate jobs and hurt growth. Cutting energy use is technically difficult and expensive. Carbon fuels are the source of more than 80% of U.S. energy, and virtually everything we make and consume has energy embedded in it. The vast majority of our buildings cannot be significantly more energy-efficient just by adding insulation and caulking the windows. Expensive modifications will be required. 
At the same time, shifting to renewables or dramatically increasing mandates for efficiency will make everything cost more. Just shifting our transportation fleet to natural gas from gasoline and diesel would require a major expansion of our natural-gas pipeline network and rapid expansion of controversial fracking operations. 
The U.S. can't afford such costs right now. Over time, however, technological progress will cut the price of reducing greenhouse-gas emissions -- yet another reason to take the time needed to forge a global agreement. 
By continuing to negotiate, the U.S. won't be ceding leadership on the issue to China. The idea that China could be in a position to win diplomatic points for its efforts in reducing carbon emissions is just silly. (If you're in Beijing or Shanghai, just look out the window.) If influence is based on adopting successful environmental policies, the U.S. beats China already. 
In China and elsewhere in the developing world, emissions are rising because of economic growth that is providing people in those regions better lives. Economic development means more energy use not only for construction, transportation and manufacturing, but across the board. Even if every Chinese car buyer bought a Prius, global emissions are going to rise as the Chinese build more cars and roads. 
Persuading these nations to incur higher costs and delay improvements in their people's well-being is going to require sacrifice on our part, too. But rushing ahead and cutting our emissions unilaterally wouldn't only be a waste of money, it wouldn't gain anything in return. And that is not a serious strategy for successful negotiations. 
Mr. Morriss is the dean and Anthony G. Buzbee endowed chair-holder at the Texas A&M University School of Law. He can be reached at reports@wsj.com. 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Greenhouse effect; 
Series & special reports; 
Climate change; 
Environmental policy 


Location 	United States--US 
Classification  9190: United States  
1540: Pollution control  
Title  Big Issues in Energy (A Special Report) --- Should the U.S. Take Unilateral Action on Climate  
Policy?  
Author  Levi, Michael; Morriss, Andrew P  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  R.2  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Nov 24, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1627006871  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1627006871?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 266 of 376 


Big Issues in Energy (A Special Report) --- Does 'Clean Coal' Technology Have a Future? 
Herzog, Howard J; Heinberg, Richard.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]24 Nov 2014: R.7. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Big+Issues+in+Energy+%28A+Special+Report%29+--­+Does+%27Clean+Coal%27+Technology+Have+a+Future%3F&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2014-11­24&volume=&issue=&spage=R.6&au=Herzog%2C+Howard+J%3BHeinberg%2C+Richard&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
With concerns mounting about the effect of greenhouse gases on the global climate, pressure is growing for utilities to reduce carbon-dioxide emissions in their power production. A recently released assessment of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change showed that clean-coal projects are projected to be competitive in a low-carbon world, and that excluding CCS from a mitigation-technology portfolio would more than double the cost of achieving climate-stabilization goals through 2100. 

Full Text 
The mix of energy sources used to produce electricity is changing -- slowly. Coal is still king and is expected to retain that title for decades, giving ground only gradually to renewable fuels, natural gas and nuclear power. 
Coal will account for 39% of global net electricity generation next year and 36% in 2040, according to projections by the U.S. Energy Information Administration. 
Many people would like to see that number drop more dramatically. With concerns mounting about the effect of greenhouse gases on the global climate, pressure is growing for utilities to reduce carbon-dioxide emissions in their power production. 
The power industry has responded in part by increasing its use of renewable energy sources. But it also continues to pursue another idea to help address environmental concerns: clean up coal-fired power plants. Technology that achieves that by capturing most of the carbon dioxide in a plant's emissions and then liquefying it for underground storage or for commercial use is just starting to be implemented. 
Proponents of renewable fuels want utilities to focus instead on investing much more heavily in wind and solar power. The many billions of dollars it would take to implement clean-coal technology on a global scale won't do enough to lessen coal's environmental impact, they argue. That money, they say, should be going toward speeding the arrival of renewable energy as the new king of power generation. 
Yes: Technology 
Innovation Will Rise 
To the Challenge 
By Howard J. Herzog 
People have questioned the idea of clean coal for decades. It started with doubts about cleaning up particulate matter in power-plant emissions, then sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides, and it continues with skepticism about eliminating heavy metals like mercury. 
Despite the naysayers, technology and innovation have risen to the challenge by providing effective and affordable solutions. Now, the challenge is to reduce coal's carbon-dioxide emissions. If history is any guide, innovative technology will once again provide the solutions. 
The key technology needed to drastically reduce CO2 emissions from coal-fired power plants is carbon capture and storage, or CCS. All of the components of this system are in commercial operation today, At this point, they are employed mostly to enhance oil recovery. There are about 4,000 miles of pipeline in the U.S. transporting tens of millions of tons of compressed CO2 annually, mostly from natural wells, for injection into geologic formations to help extract oil. Numerous demonstration projects have shown that captured CO2 also can be safely and effectively stored in deep geologic formations, as most of it will be. 
Last month brought an important milestone: SaskPower's Boundary Dam power plant in Canada officially opened as the world's first commercial-scale coal power plant with CCS. About 90% of the plant's CO2 is captured and piped about 40 miles for injection into oil fields. Next year, the Mississippi Power unit of Southern Co. will start operating a new clean-coal plant, and construction has just started on a clean-coal power plant in Texas. Other projects are being planned, most prominently in the U.S., U.K. and China. 
Clean coal will become more common because climate policy will demand cleaner power. For instance, an emissions restriction on coal-fired power plants in Canada was a major driver for the Boundary Dam project. There will be added costs to power providers. But clean coal won't be so expensive that it can't compete with renewable or nuclear resources. All three will find significant markets. Yes, clean coal will require massive infrastructure investments on a global scale -- but so will a major expansion of renewable-energy projects. For the electricity price of the Cape Wind project in Massachusetts, we could easily build a clean-coal plant with CCS. 
A recently released assessment of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change showed that clean-coal projects are projected to be competitive in a low-carbon world, and that excluding CCS from a mitigation-technology portfolio would more than double the cost of achieving climate-stabilization goals through 2100. 
Selling captured carbon for enhanced oil recovery can help reduce the cost of CCS. And new technologies under development could allow carbon to be captured with dramatically lower expenditure of energy. 
As for coal being a finite resource, that isn't a factor in the near term. We have centuries of coal supply. It is true that coal production in the U.S. has dipped recently, but this is due to competition from low-price natural gas. It has nothing to do with depletion. 
Meanwhile, CCS isn't the only road to clean coal. State-of-the-art coal-fired power plants are being built with much higher efficiencies that result in a 20% reduction in CO2 emissions per kilowatt-hour of electricity produced. And other technologies and regulations are mitigating the impacts of coal mining. 
If you want to understand the energy industry, you must understand the power of innovation and technology. Instead of the oil shortages that some predicted, we have an oil glut thanks to technology. Many experts thought you couldn't profitably produce oil and gas from shale; technology proved otherwise. And it is because of technology that I'm optimistic about the future of clean coal. 
Mr. Herzog is senior research engineer at the MIT Energy Initiative at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He can be reached at reports@wsj.com. 
No: The Economics 
Simply Don't Work 
And Will Get Worse 
By Richard Heinberg 
For years, Americans have seen commercials touting "clean coal," while politicians on both sides of the aisle have extolled its promise. The technology to capture carbon emissions from coal-fired power plants has been tried and tested. Yet today almost none of the nation's coal-fueled plants are "clean." 
Why the delay? The biggest problem for "clean coal" is that the economics don't work. Carbon capture and storage, or CCS, is extremely expensive. That gives the power industry little incentive to implement it in the absence of a substantial carbon tax. 
Why would implementing CCS be so expensive? For starters, capturing and storing the carbon from coal combustion is estimated to consume 25% to 45% of the power produced, depending on the approach taken. That translates to not only higher prices for coal-generated electricity but also the need for more plants to serve the same customers. Other technologies designed to make carbon capture more efficient aren't commercial at this point, and their full costs are unknown. 
And there's more. Capturing and burying just 38% of the carbon released from current U.S. coal combustion would entail pipelines, compressors and pumps on a scale equivalent to the size of the nation's oil industry. And while bolting CCS technology onto existing power plants is possible, it is inefficient. A new generation of plants would do the job much better -- but that means replacing roughly 600 current-generation power plants. 
Altogether, the Energy Department estimates that wholesale electricity prices with the initial generation of CCS technology would be 70% to 80% higher than current coal-based power. 
The discussion of CCS technology in a recent assessment by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change contains too many qualifiers to be interpreted as a declaration that clean coal will be competitive with renewable fuels. 
Long term, the economics of coal are likely to get worse, with or without CCS. Coal is nonrenewable, finite in quantity and therefore subject to depletion. Rates of production from most regions of the U.S. are in decline. And as depletion forces the mining of lower-quality resources, production prices will rise because of the need for more-sophisticated extraction technologies. Declining output is inevitable sooner or later. 
Meanwhile, the price of electricity produced from solar and wind power is steadily dropping. The only thing that keeps coal-based electricity cheap today in relation to power from renewable sources is the industry's ability to shift the hidden costs -- environmental and health damage -- onto society. If, as climate regulations inevitably kick in, the coal power industry adopts CCS as a survival strategy, any lingering economic advantage over wind and even solar will disappear. 
CCS also doesn't address the full range of coal's impact on society. It won't banish high rates of lung disease, because it doesn't eliminate all the pollutants from the combustion process or deal with the coal dust from mining and transport. It also doesn't address the environmental devastation of "mountaintop removal" mining. 
This is not to say that "clean coal" has no future whatever. Coal plants with CCS will be built where captured carbon dioxide can be used to generate extra income -- for example, by using it to stimulate old oil wells or make cement. But even a dramatic increase in such uses would put only a small fraction of carbon from coal to work. 
A full transition of today's coal power industry to CCS is extremely unlikely unless the economics substantially change for some currently unforeseeable reason. And other technological advances, like more-efficient coal-fired plants, can only slow the growth of harmful emissions at best. 
In all likelihood, the real future lies elsewhere -- with distributed renewable energy. 
Mr. Heinberg is a senior fellow-in-residence at the Post Carbon Institute, an advocate for renewable fuels. He can be reached at reports@wsj.com. 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Series & special reports; 
Alternative energy sources; 

Electricity; 
Coal-fired power plants 


Location  United States--US  
Classification  1520: Energy policy  
9190: United States  
Title  Big Issues in Energy (A Special Report) --- Does 'Clean Coal' Technology Have a Future?  
Author  Herzog, Howard J; Heinberg, Richard  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  R.7  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Nov 24, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1627003387  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1627003387?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 267 of 376 


Big Issues in Energy (A Special Report) --- Should Endowments Divest Their Holdings in Fossil Fuels? 
Dorsey, Ellen; Stavins, Robert N.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]24 Nov 2014: R.4. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Big+Issues+in+Energy+%28A+Special+Report%29+--­+Should+Endowments+Divest+Their+Holdings+in+Fossil+Fuels%3F&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2014-11­24&volume=&issue=&spage=R.4&au=Dorsey%2C+Ellen%3BStavins%2C+Robert+N&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Traditional fossil-fuel investments account for a big chunk of those energy bets, which has sparked a showdown between student activists who say it is morally wrong to support an industry contributing to global climate change, and colleges and universities under pressure to raise funds for financial aid and facilities. 

Full Text 
College and university endowments have roughly $22 billion, or 5% of their assets, invested in energy and natural resources, according to the National Association of College and University Business Officers. 
Traditional fossil-fuel investments account for a big chunk of those energy bets, which has sparked a showdown between student activists who say it is morally wrong to support an industry contributing to global climate change, and colleges and universities under pressure to raise funds for financial aid and facilities. 
The activists have had some success: Stanford University, one of richest schools in America, vowed last May to sell off the coal stocks in its portfolio. But activists have yet to persuade other schools to take action, including Harvard University, whose $36.4 billion endowment is the largest in the U.S. Critics say divestment is simply a feel-good measure that won't help the climate and may actually divert attention from actions that could make a difference. 
Yes: They Should Do 
It for Both Financial 
And Moral Reasons 
By Ellen Dorsey 
At the U.N. Climate Summit in September, more than 800 institutions and individual investors, with more than $50 billion in assets, vowed to divest from fossil fuels. Signatories ran the gamut from the World Council of Churches to major foundations, from Rockefeller heirs of the Standard Oil fortune to "mom and pop" investors with modest 401(k)s. 
This unlikely cohort represents the beginning of a tsunami that will change the face of climate advocacy, and which investors with significant exposure to fossil-fuel stocks ignore at their peril. Those skeptical of this new global movement would do well to consider its history, its core arguments and its rapidly widening impact. 
Born in late 2011 on U.S. university campuses, the movement calling on investors to shift capital from fossil fuels to climate-friendly energy solutions has spread quickly to other continents and sectors, including faith, health care, philanthropy, cities and pensions. Participants have been moved by ethical concerns about climate change, as well as by the failure of governments to take action and concerns that fossil-fuel investments won't pay off in the long term. 
The financial concerns are sobering. Valuation of fossil-fuel stocks is currently based on the coal, oil and gas reserves held by the companies. However, we can't burn the vast majority of known fossil-fuel reserves and still keep the rise in global surface temperatures below 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) -- the level to which world governments have committed and that scientists say is vital. 
Yet fossil-fuel firms spend more than a half a trillion dollars annually seeking new reserves, wasting investor profits and diverting needed capital from climate solutions. Exactly when their unsustainable business model will fail is hard to say, but with major powers such as China and the U.S. recently pledging to reduce carbon emissions, prudent long­term investors will be out well ahead of the inevitable market correction. 
The divestment movement is also about moral concerns -- the belief that it is no longer defensible to profit from fossil fuels. Much as with apartheid and tobacco, cause-based institutions have decided they can't hold stock in industries that threaten their goals or constituents. 
Critics of divestment typically question the direct and immediate financial impact on the fossil-fuel industry. "If you sell your stock, someone else will buy it," they say, or, "Divestment won't affect fossil-fuel companies or the climate." These arguments fundamentally miss the point. 
Fossil-fuel divestment has never been about bankrupting the industry. It is about challenging the legitimacy of a business model that now threatens lives and livelihoods around the world. It is about sounding an alarm in the financial community about the systemic risk of "stranded" fossil assets. It is about challenging politicians to take a stand against the donations of the fossil-fuel industry and take meaningful action on climate change. And it is about moving money into things like energy efficiency, renewables and clean technology. It is a movement aimed at both shifting markets, while building political power to propel government action on climate change. 
Some say it is better to hold fossil-fuel stocks and engage the companies. This "wishful thinking" strategy has been tried for 20 years without success. Do shareholder advocates really believe companies with massive carbon reserves will fundamentally alter their business model in a time frame imposed by the science? The evidence is a resounding "No." 
The transition to the next energy era will be complicated, and we will have to rely on fossil energy in the near term. But natural gas -- with its serious methane risks -- isn't the bridge to the next era that many believe it to be; rather, it is a thorny and costly path diverting us from the real objective. We have the technology to make the transition to 100% renewables over the next few decades, while meeting the energy needs of developing nations. What we need is the political will and financial foresight to make it happen. 
It isn't often we have an opportunity to both do well and do good. Investors who divest from fossil fuels and invest in climate solutions will drive the energy transition the world must make. And those who move their money early will benefit, unleashing the innovation needed to secure our survival and ensure our prosperity. 
The climate crisis -- unprecedented in both scale and urgency -- demands an end to business-as-usual. The time to divest is now. 
Dr. Dorsey is executive director of the Wallace Global Fund. She can be reached at reports@wsj.com. 
No: The Symbolic 
Act Would Achieve 
Little and Cost Much 
By Robert N. Stavins 
Student activists are pressing colleges and university endowments to divest their holdings in fossil-fuel companies, because the combustion of coal, oil and natural gas contribute to carbon-dioxide emissions that -- along with other greenhouse gases -- cause global climate change. 
While the students' concerns are understandable, I believe the message from the divestment movement is fundamentally misguided. 
We need to focus on actions that will make a real difference, as opposed to actions that may feel or look good but have little real-world impact, particularly when such symbolic actions have opportunity costs -- that is, they divert us from what really matters. And what really matters in addressing climate change will be enlightened public policies at the international, national and sub-national levels that will reduce greenhouse-gas emissions and the risk of climate change. This is where research institutions can and should wield their influence. 
On Oct. 3, 2013, after many months of assessment, discussion and debate, Harvard President Drew Faust announced that Harvard's governing boards didn't believe that "university divestment from the fossil-fuel industry is warranted or wise." Responding in the Nation a few days later, two of the student leaders at Harvard noted that "we do not expect divestment to have a financial impact on fossil-fuel companies . . . . Divestment is a moral and political strategy to expose the reckless business model of the fossil-fuel industry that puts our world at risk." 
I agree with the students that fossil-fuel divestment by the university wouldn't hurt the industry financially, and I also agree with their implication that it would be of symbolic value only. It is precisely because of this that I believe President Faust announced the right decision. 
If divestment would at best be a symbolic action, without direct and effective financial impacts on the industry -- or, more important, on global CO2 emissions -- then a major problem arises. Symbolic actions often substitute for truly effective actions by allowing us to fool ourselves into thinking we are doing something meaningful about a problem when we are not. 
But aren't the beneficial impacts of a moral crusade worth the opportunity costs of symbolic actions? The answer, in my view, is "no." 
Climate change is fundamentally a scientific, economic and political challenge. Viewing it as a moral crusade will play into and exacerbate the ideological divide and political polarization that has paralyzed Washington on this and other issues, diminishing the prospects for effective climate policy. Whatever moral statement divestment might make isn't worth further disintegration of the climate-policy process. 
As to whether there is a financial risk associated with ignoring the divestment movement, that reasoning is flawed. Fossil-fuel asset prices are unlikely to be affected by divestment, and the market already prices in the probability of future policy action on climate change. 
And even if divestment were to reduce the industry's financial resources, this would only serve to reduce fossil-fuel companies' efforts to develop emissions-cutting technologies such as carbon capture and storage. It also could slow development of new renewable energy sources by fossil-fuel companies pursuing sensible diversification strategies. Also, keep in mind that a major reason for recent declines in U.S. carbon emissions is our increased use of natural gas (a fossil fuel) instead of coal to generate electricity. 
The divestment strategy focuses exclusively on investment, but emissions are linked with the use of fossil fuels, which in our economy is due to the interaction of the supply of energy resources and the demand for energy services. The most effective public policies recognize this, and thereby work through the market. 
The real contributions of great universities to the fight against climate change will be through our products: research, teaching and outreach to policy makers. That is how we have made a difference on other societal challenges, and it is how we will make a real difference on this one. 
Dr. Stavins is the Albert Pratt professor of business and government at the Harvard Kennedy School, a research associate of the National Bureau of Economic Research, and a university fellow of Resources for the Future. He served as chairman of the EPA's Environmental Economics Advisory Board under Presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush, and has served as a lead author in three rounds of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Email him at reports@wsj.com. 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Series & special reports; 
Endowment; 
Fossil fuels 


Location  United States--US  
Classification  8306: Schools and educational services  
9190: United States  
Title  Big Issues in Energy (A Special Report) --- Should Endowments Divest Their Holdings in Fossil  
Fuels?  
Author  Dorsey, Ellen; Stavins, Robert N  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  R.4  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Nov 24, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1627003366  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1627003366?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 268 of 376 


Big Issues in Energy (A Special Report) --- Where Is Energy Policy Heading Over the Next Two Years? Two policy advocates debate the China accord, the likelihood of gridlock and the ban on oil exports 
Harder, Amy.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]24 Nov 2014: R.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Big+Issues+in+Energy+%28A+Special+Report%29+--­+Where+Is+Energy+Policy+Heading+Over+the+Next+Two+Years%3F+Two+policy+advocates+debate+the+China+accord%2C+the+likelihood+of+gridlock+and+the+ban+on+o 11-24&volume=&issue=&spage=R.1&au=Harder%2C+Amy&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
[...]next year the U.S. will be one step closer to achieving the significant carbon pollution reductions we need to avert dangerous climate change. [...]China is expected to add the equivalent of the entire current U.S. coal fleet over the next decade. 

Full Text 
Next year's Republican-controlled Senate is expected to come out strongly against President Barack Obama's most consequential policies aimed at reducing the effects of climate change. 
The GOP-controlled House already has spent the past few years passing legislation curtailing Environmental Protection Agency regulations. Now the Senate's next majority leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, is poised to put the upper chamber in lock step with the House on infrastructure and energy-efficiency bills as well. 
To get a sense of where energy and environmental policy might be headed in the next Congress, The Wall Street Journal reached out to policy advocates on opposite sides of the political fence: Alison Cassady, director of domestic energy policy at the Center for American Progress and a former aide to House Energy and Commerce Committee ranking member Henry Waxman (D., Calif.); and George David Banks, senior fellow at the R Street Institute and former Republican deputy staff director for U.S. Senate Environment and Public Works Committee ranking member James Inhofe (R., Okla.). Here are edited excerpts. 
WSJ: Will the Republican-controlled Congress be able to roll back or stop the EPA? And how does the recent climate-change deal announced with China affect the debate? 
MS. CASSADY: In 2015, the EPA will finalize the first carbon pollution standards for U.S. power plants. Congressional leadership will try to block these standards, but they will not succeed. As a result, next year the U.S. will be one step closer to achieving the significant carbon pollution reductions we need to avert dangerous climate change. 
Republicans in Congress have made many claims about the president's Climate Action Plan, but two stand out in light of the U.S.-China announcement. First, they have argued that the emissions reductions achieved by the president's policies are inconsequential on the global scale. Second, they have argued that the U.S. should not act because China never will. 
The U.S.-China agreement shows just how misplaced these claims are. President Obama's policies to cut carbon pollution from vehicles and power plants have leveraged a major commitment to act from the Chinese. In turn, this unprecedented leadership from the U.S. and China will bring more countries to the table to make similar commitments. The president's policies provided the catalyst for this major foreign-policy success. Republican attacks on this success will only hurt our standing in the world. 
MR. BANKS: In Congress, the GOP will adopt messaging bills and Congressional Review Acts on key regulations that the president will veto. At the same time, Republicans will slow or chip away at the White House's climate policies via focused appropriation plays attached to must-pass bills. Beijing's agreement that it intends to cap emissions by 2030 will heighten "leakage" concerns that U.S. emissions (and jobs) will continue to be transferred to China, thus strengthening the argument that EPA action does not produce any real climate mitigation benefits. 
China essentially "agreed" to do what it already intends to do. Thus, there was no real "deal." 
China remains on track to reach a greenhouse-gas emissions level by 2017 that is double the U.S. level. In fact, China is expected to add the equivalent of the entire current 
U.S. coal fleet over the next decade. That translates into a new 600-megawatt coal plant every 10 days. At the same time, the U.S. plans to shutter a large percentage of its coal fleet, reducing a key source of affordable and reliable electricity. If that were a deal, it would be a lousy one, and Republicans know that. 
WSJ: Will this election lead to more bipartisanship? Will there be unique opportunity for bipartisanship on energy and environmental policy? 
MS. CASSADY: On energy policy, bipartisan progress will depend in large part on whether the Senate and House Republican leadership can moderate their respective caucuses. 
Sen. McConnell and Rep. John Boehner [House speaker] have promised to bring up bills that passed the House with bipartisan support in the 113th Congress. On its face, this may sound like a reasonable approach. But in reality, they would be catering to the most hard-line members of their party. The Republican-led House has amassed a remarkable anti-environmental track record that stands in stark contrast to Americans' support for environmental stewardship. 
MR. BANKS: With the president expressing little interest in working with Congress, we should not expect to see significant bipartisanship on most controversial issues. The president's carbon plans, for example, rely solely on using existing executive-branch authority under the Clean Air Act to achieve emissions reductions. Republicans are counting on the courts to eventually reject related EPA proposals, in part or in their entirety. 
One wild card on the climate-change front is the potential for extreme weather events this winter. We came dangerously close to a grid failure last January during the polar vortex. If part of the grid fails (i.e., millions of people go without electricity) because of the absence of coal plants that were shuttered because of EPA regulations, the president's go-it-alone approach could face major criticism. Democrats who have often used extreme weather events to promote action on climate change may find the tables turned by Republican arguments that unreasonable climate and environmental policies resulted in actual harm to the American people. 
MS. CASSADY: Climate change is the perfect example of where Republicans need to moderate the most insurgent members of their caucus. House Republicans have voted to block funding for climate science while saying the scientific record isn't complete. They have voted to block funding for international outreach on climate change while decrying unilateral action. They even voted to deny the reality of climate change, even though the scientific consensus is clear. 
If Republicans want to engage the president on climate change, they first need to acknowledge that climate change is a serious problem that demands an urgent response. 
WSJ: How do the election and the failed vote on Nov. 18 change the dynamics on the Keystone XL pipeline? Senate Republicans say they have the 60 votes needed to pass it, but will Mr. Obama veto or sign a bill that approves Keystone? 
MR. BANKS: It's unfortunate that Sen. Mary Landrieu's effort failed by only one vote. A recent Huffington Post poll indicated that 56% of Americans support the pipeline. Of course, Republicans will try again next year. Four of the Landrieu "no" votes will be replaced with Republicans, thus the GOP has a solid chance of reaching the 60-vote threshold, as long as no more than three Democrats abandon their "yes" position. We should not expect the magic [veto-proof] number of 67 to be reached, given the symbolism of the pipeline to climate alarmism. The president will therefore maintain leverage with the veto threat. 
Regardless, the Congress may send a bill to the president as a stand-alone. Given the number of bills that he will feel forced to oppose -- chiefly those aimed at stopping the climate agenda -- the White House should choose when best to exercise the veto, particularly given the level of public support for the project. Most Americans do not view Keystone as an environmental threat, backed by a State Department assessment that the pipeline only produces negligible greenhouse-gas emissions. If the president does veto it, Congress will attach the pipeline approval to a must-pass bill that he cannot veto. 
MS. CASSADY: The world's climate scientists are sounding alarms about the urgent need to decarbonize our energy system and are warning against locking in new high-carbon infrastructure like Keystone XL. The most recent report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change says we have to eliminate fossil-fuel use by the end of the century to avoid catastrophic warming. In that context, arguments against doubling down on Canadian tar sands have even greater resonance. Keystone XL will ensure and expedite the development of the dirtiest fossil fuel on the planet. Moreover, the state of Nebraska still has not finalized a pipeline route that satisfies concerns of ranchers and property owners. 
The president has reiterated his commitment to the current review process, which allows him to consider the costs and benefits of the pipeline for the American people. The question for Keystone XL proponents is one the oil industry and other energy interests will face often in 2015: Are they willing to moderate their hard-line position that disregards climate change and other environmental concerns? 
WSJ: What do you think Congress and the president will do about the ban on oil exports? 
MR. BANKS: It is highly likely that the ban on crude-oil exports will be lifted by this Congress with White House support. Our reduced dependence on oil imports -- resulting from increased domestic oil production and transportation-fuel efficiency improvements -- has made the ban much more difficult to defend. Of course, wild cards exist. An oil supply shock in the Middle East, for example, would complicate a shift in policy, despite the global market's increased need for U.S. oil. 
MS. CASSADY: If you listen to proponents of lifting the ban, you'd believe that we produce more oil than we need. In fact, the U.S. remains dependent on foreign oil to meet our needs. In that context, members of Congress and the public will have to evaluate whether it makes sense to start shipping more oil overseas. Congress should proceed cautiously and hold meaningful, thorough hearings on the potential consumer and environmental impacts of lifting the ban. 
Ms. Harder is a staff reporter in The Wall Street Journal's Washington bureau. Email her at amy.harder@wsj.com. 
Credit: By Amy Harder 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Series & special reports; 
Energy policy 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Banks, George David; Cassady, Alison 
Classification 	1520: Energy policy 

9190: United States 


Title 	Big Issues in Energy (A Special Report) --- Where Is Energy Policy Heading Over the Next Two 
Years? Two policy advocates debate the China accord, the likelihood of gridlock and the ban on 
oil exports 

Author 	Harder, Amy 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	R.1 
Publication year 	2014 
Publication date 	Nov 24, 2014 
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Interview  
ProQuest document ID  1627003327  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1627003327?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 269 of 376 


CUNY Faces Divestment Pressure 
Vilensky, Mike.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]17 Nov 2014: A.15. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=CUNY+Faces+Divestment+Pressure&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00 11-17&volume=&issue=&spage=A.15&au=Vilensky%2C+Mike&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
CUNY student advocates have passed student-government resolutions at several CUNY schools and have filed a Freedom of Information Act request to get more details on CUNY's investment strategies. 

Full Text 
The board of trustees at the City University of New York is debating whether to sell millions of dollars in investments in fossil-fuel companies amid growing demands from 
students, faculty, and lawmakers. 
The conversation has roiled CUNY's 24 campuses across the city in which some 500,000 students are enrolled. It has also engaged some liberal state senators, who have 
recently lent support to pro-divestment students, and set up a potential partisan battle in the New York state Legislature. 

The issue has also drawn two former New York City mayoral candidates back into a public dialogue: Anthony Gronowicz, a CUNY professor calling for divestment who ran for 
mayor last year on the Green Party ticket; and Joseph Lhota, chairman of CUNY's board's fiscal-affairs committee, who ran last year on the GOP ticket. 
"We don't want to invest our money into the destruction of the planet," Mr. Gronowicz said. "Colleges need to be taking a stand on fossil fuels." 

"The board is taking [divestment demands] under advisement," Mr. Lhota said at a recent CUNY meeting. "We will continue to discuss this very difficult situation." 
Over the past several years, students around the U.S. have called on campus governing boards to move their institutions' investments out of fossil-fuel companies, including 
those that produce and market oil, gas and coal. They say the move will encourage the development of alternative energy sources, combat climate change, and send a powerful 
message to oil companies. 

"We're in this for the long haul," said Daniel Asselin, a 2009 graduate of CUNY's Brooklyn College who is calling for his alma mater to divest. Mr. Asselin said divestment was 

"largely symbolic," but he believes it is "the most effective way to see systemic change." 
Student campaigns nationally have been met with some successes -- Stanford University, for one, vowed last May to purge coal stocks from its portfolio. Skepticism remains, 
however, and efforts at many other campuses haven't so far succeeded. 

"This is just not going to have any impact whatsoever," said Ivo Welch, a finance professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, who has swatted down efforts there to 

compel the school to divest itself of fossil fuels. 
CUNY student advocates have passed student-government resolutions at several CUNY schools and have filed a Freedom of Information Act request to get more details on 
CUNY's investment strategies. They secured one victory in September, when CUNY's Committee on Fiscal Affairs formally discussed the issue, according to audio from the 
meeting. 

Divestment skeptics have two chief concerns, both of which came up at the meeting: Divestment could limit CUNY's investment returns and thus cut into financial aid for its 

neediest students, and the proposed divestment wouldn't be big enough to affect a large multinational corporation. 
"Trustees . . . have a fiduciary duty to make the most informed and solid investments available to them," said Joe Borelli, a Republican Assemblyman from Staten Island and 
political-science professor at CUNY. "It would be a breach of this trust to use their position to make obtuse political points at the expense of the school's financial stability." 

Vito DiGiovanni, a sophomore at CUNY's Brooklyn College, said he didn't think the board should make political statements or give students a say in its investment strategy. 

Instead, Mr. DiGiovanni said, student-advocates should focus on recycling. 
The endowment at the publicly funded CUNY stands at about $241 million, officials said. The school said CUNY had about $10 million in fossil-fuels securities within a diversified 
mutual-fund portfolio. Students said CUNY had positions in Exxon Mobil Corp., and Chevron Corp., among others. 

An Exxon spokesman directed a reporter to a blog post written by Ken Cohen, the company's vice president of public and government affairs. "Divestment represents a diversion from the real search for technological solutions to managing climate risks that energy companies like ours are pursuing," Mr. Cohen wrote. 
A representative for Chevron couldn't be reached. 
Karen Moreau, executive director of the New York State Petroleum Council, a trade group, said divestment would hurt students who rely on financial aid. "Our companies provide 
millions of jobs and trillions in revenue," Ms. Moreau said. Divestment "hurts the middle class and those who can least afford a good education." 

Some Democratic senators have aligned with divestment advocates. Said Manhattan Sen. Adriano Espaillat: "The divestment movement offers a compelling approach for the 
urgent change we need . . . Institutions like CUNY must lead." 
Credit: By Mike Vilensky 

(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Colleges & universities;  
Alternative energy sources;  
Fossil fuels;  
Students;  
Meetings;  
Investment policy;  
College campuses;  
Divestments  
Location  New York  
Company / organization  Name: City University of New York--CUNY  
NAICS: 611310  
Title  CUNY Faces Divestment Pressure  
Author  Vilensky, Mike  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.15  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Nov 17, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1625285833  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1625285833?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 270 of 376 


Green Leap Forward 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]13 Nov 2014: A.14. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Green+Leap+Forward&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&d 11-13&volume=&issue=&spage=A.14&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Forecasts from the U.S. Energy Information Administration, BP's Statistical Review of World Energy and the academic journal Energy Policy all expect Chinese energy consumption to crest in two decades due to demographic and urbanization trends. 

Full Text 
The climate-change campaign against fossil fuels has been having a hard time with democracy. Voters in the U.S. support fracking and the Keystone XL pipeline, Australia repealed its carbon tax, and frustration with green energy costs is rising across Europe. So perhaps it's not surprising that President Obama has turned to a dictatorship for help with his anticarbon ambitions. 
In that sense, the emissions accord sealed Tuesday night between the U.S. and China is a perfect reflection of the mindset of Western climate-change activists. Cheap and abundant energy is popular among Americans because it raises living standards and helps the economy grow. 
The romance of the fresh princelings of Beijing is that they needn't abide such barriers to enlightened governance as elections, a free press, transparency, the rule of law and two political parties. They can simply order economic transformation in the next five-year plan, and censor any dissenters as Al Gore wants to do in the U.S. Thus in China Mr. Obama has found the ideal climate-change partner: A technocratic elite that can instruct the bourgeoisie how they must light their homes and commute to work. 
We and many others have been skeptical of a U.S.-China carbon pact, though that was because we assumed the White House and green lobby would demand terms that imposed at least some discipline on Chinese behavior. We discounted the possibility that Mr. Obama preferred the illusion of progress, and that his green allies could be rolled as cheaply as the terms of Tuesday's accord. 
Under the nonbinding, no-detail agreement, Supreme Leader Xi Jinping promises "to intend to achieve the peaking of CO2 emissions around 2030," and then maybe after that to decline. This is another way of describing the status quo. 
Forecasts from the U.S. Energy Information Administration, BP's Statistical Review of World Energy and the academic journal Energy Policy all expect Chinese energy consumption to crest in two decades due to demographic and urbanization trends. Mr. Obama has in essence persuaded the Chinese to do what they planned to do anyway. 
Mr. Xi also agreed to shift at least 20% of Chinese energy production to non-fossil-fuels by 2030. But this too is what China has already intended, albeit largely by replacing dirty coal with nuclear power. China's Communist Party has relied on coal to fuel rapid economic growth but that is increasingly becoming a political liability as the air becomes unbreathable. Then there is widespread groundwater contamination and an eat-at-your-own-risk food supply. 
This tangible damage has inspired a revolt against the corruption and eyes-wide-shut ecological denial that defines China's political system. The harm -- measured in health problems and premature deaths, not merely higher temperatures predicted decades away in climate computer models -- also should remind America's green central-planners that autocracies are the world's worst polluters. Think of the death of the Aral Sea under the Soviets, or dead pigs floating down the Yangtze. 
All of which suggests that this accord is less about China than American climate politics. One of the main arguments against U.S. carbon rationing has been that such economic masochism is pointless as long as Chinese and Indian emissions continue to grow. Mr. Obama will now claim the Middle Kingdom is signed onto his anticarbon agenda, even if its promises are distant and vague. 
In return for Mr. Xi's assurances, Mr. Obama pledged that the U.S. will cut emissions by as much as 28% below 2005 levels by 2025. This implies doubling the annual pace of CO2 reductions over the 17% marker that Mr. Obama set in 2009. So using the Sino-American deal as cover, Mr. Obama will now say he is obliged to impose a new burst of aggressive carbon regulations, no matter the harm to U.S. growth. 
The difference is that American governance, unlike China's, is supposed to follow the rule of law; companies can't refuse to obey regulations because the CEO's brother-in-law belongs to the Party. Yet most of the rule-makings to enforce Mr. Obama's promises to China will emerge from his administrative-state tunnels like the Environmental Protection Agency without a vote in Congress. Under this President, the political systems of the East and West may share more features than patriots care to admit. 
This condominium between the world's No. 1 and No. 2 carbonizers is also supposed to inspire a new global climate treaty in Paris next year, but other nations may draw a different lesson about Mr. Obama's negotiation methods. The Chinese no doubt saw how much the President wanted an agreement and that he would accept nearly anything that could pass as one. 
Meaningless global warming promises are much easier than corralling weapons of mass destruction in North Korea, or convincing Beijing to fight Islamic State, or for that matter stopping Chinese cyber-attacks on U.S. military and corporate targets. Mr. Xi must have been delighted to see a U.S. President agree to make America less economically competitive in return for rhetorical bows to doing something someday about climate change. 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Energy policy;  
Political activism;  
Environmental policy;  
Emissions control;  
Climate change;  
Editorials -- Environmental policy  
Location  United States--US; China  
People  Xi Jinping; Obama, Barack  
Classification  1540: Pollution control  
9180: International  
1210: Politics & political behavior  
Title  Green Leap Forward  
Author  Anonymous  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.14  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Nov 13, 2014  
column  REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  1623062110  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1623062110?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 271 of 376 


Little Green Machine 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]07 Nov 2014: A.12. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Little+Green+Machine&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&d 11-07&volume=&issue=&spage=A.12&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Republicans are promising to push pro-fossil-fuel energy policy in Congress, including support for Keystone XL, fast-track approval for liquid natural-gas export terminals, opening more federal land and offshore areas to drilling, and reining in anti-coal regulations. 

Full Text 
Tom Steyer became a billionaire by investing in fossil fuels, among other things, and maybe he should return to his roots. He may need the money after blowing at least $74 million trying to persuade voters to oppose Republicans who disagree with him on climate change. 
If you want proof that money doesn't buy elections, Mr. Steyer and his fellow green comrades are it. The San Francisco investor gave most of his money to his NextGen Climate Action Super Pac, which spent almost exclusively for Democrats. Environmental groups including NextGen spent $85 million to support President Obama's green agenda, especially his regulations targeting coal for extinction. 
They didn't even get a lousy T-shirt, and they aren't taking it well. "Despite the climate movement's significant investments and an unprecedented get out the vote program, strong voices for climate action were defeated and candidates paid for by corporate interests and bolstered by sinister voter suppression tactics won the day," declared Sierra Club executive director Michael Brune. 
Venting can be healthy, but self-deception isn't. Mr. Brune should really blame the economic reality that the U.S. boom in fossil-fuel production is creating high-paying jobs and reducing energy costs across the economy. By contrast, Mr. Obama's green agenda has created few jobs and raised costs for millions of Americans. 
Voters in Pacific Heights or Manhattan may not mind paying more for their self-styled political virtue, but the average Debbie in Dubuque would rather not. The mistake too many Democrats made was listening to Mr. Steyer instead of Debbie. 
This year's environmental debate boiled down to Democratic support for Mr. Obama's climate rules and green subsidies against full-throated Republican support for energy production of all sorts, including coal, oil and natural-gas fracking, more pipelines and greater fossil-fuel exports. These GOP candidates won nearly everywhere. 
In Kentucky Mitch McConnell made opposition to the "war on coal" the centerpiece of his campaign. He won what was expected to be a close election by 15 points. Coal-supporting Shelley Moore Capito became the first GOP Senator in 55 years from West Virginia, where voters also ended the 38-year career of Democratic Rep. Nick Rahall, who couldn't separate himself from Mr. Obama's energy policies. 
Nearly every one of Mr. Steyer's favored candidates -- in Colorado, Iowa, Florida, Wisconsin and Maine -- lost. New Hampshire's Jeanne Shaheen won, but Scott Brown had her playing defense for supporting a cap-and-trade carbon tax. A recent Gallup poll found that climate change ranked last among 16 issues that voters cared about in the midterms. 
It's even possible that Mr. Steyer's money helped Republicans. He and the greens have made opposition to the Keystone XL pipeline a litmus test of their support for Democrats. Mr. Obama has in turn dutifully delayed approving the pipeline, despite multiple government reports showing no net effect on the climate. But the delay has raised Keystone's national profile and made it a wedge issue in Senate campaigns. 
Republicans campaigned for the project that polls show has 70% approval, using Keystone to appeal to union workers and voters without college degrees. Colorado's Cory Gardner hammered Democratic Sen. Mark Udall on his refusal to support Keystone. He's now Senator-elect Gardner. 
Republicans are promising to push pro-fossil-fuel energy policy in Congress, including support for Keystone XL, fast-track approval for liquid natural-gas export terminals, opening more federal land and offshore areas to drilling, and reining in anti-coal regulations. Democrats who want to help create jobs, and perhaps save their own, may want to rethink their fealty to Tom Steyer's checkbook. 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Energy policy; 
Climate change; 
Coal; 
Political action committees--PAC; 
Political finance; 
Editorials -- Energy policy 


Location 	United States--US 
People  Brown, Scott; Rahall, Nick J II; Capito, Shelley Moore; Steyer, Tom  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Republican Party 813940;  
Name: NAICS:  Sierra Club 813312  

Classification  9190: United States  
1520: Energy policy  
1210: Politics & political behavior  
Title  Little Green Machine  
Author  Anonymous  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.12  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Nov 7, 2014  
column  REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  1621006275  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1621006275?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 272 of 376 


How Plunging Oil Scrambles Geopolitics 
Shaffer, Brenda.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]31 Oct 2014: A.13. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=How+Plunging+Oil+Scrambles+Geopolitics&title=Wall+Street+Journa 10-31&volume=&issue=&spage=A.13&au=Shaffer%2C+Brenda&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Another consequence of the oil-price fall is that most oil exporters will dip into their sovereign wealth and revenue funds to fund their budgets. Since most of these investments are held outside their countries, this wealth retransfer will influence global markets as significant amounts of capital will fly back to the producers. The impact of lower oil prices on economic sanctions against Russia and Iran will also be mixed. 

Full Text 
The global oil price has dropped by 25% since June, with oil traded in the U.S. hitting $79.80 a barrel this week, the lowest it has been in four years. Many Western policy makers are pleased, hoping that the price crash will rein in the ambitions of dangerous oil-dependent actors like Vladimir Putin and Iran. Yet the price drop may have negative consequences, too. 
Global oil prices and geopolitics interact like a delicate kaleidoscope. When the oil price changes significantly, it sets off a chain of economic and geopolitical consequences. The price collapse is also a sign of deeper, disquieting economic trends. 
Oil supply has risen thanks to astonishing U.S. crude production, which has increased by more than a million barrels a day in the past year. While that could be expected to push down prices, the price drop has been accelerated by slowing demand, the result of economic declines in major markets, including Germany and China. In the second quarter of 2014, world economic growth slowed to 2.6%. Germany estimates its growth at 1.2% this year, and the World Bank says China's growth will slow to 7.6%. 
The greatest impact of lower oil prices will be on states that derive most of their government income from oil exports -- especially those that assume a certain oil price in trying to balance their budgets. When the actual price is well below the expected price, it can be alarming for oil producers with large populations that make it harder to maintain extensive social-welfare benefits and subsidies. The OPEC members rallying for a price-boosting cut in oil production are more-populous countries like Iran and Venezuela. 
Although some states may be vulnerable to social instability if they are forced to trim subsidies due to the drop in oil prices, Russia is not among the most vulnerable. Its energy and other subsidies are relatively modest compared with other oil exporters and Russia also has ample reserves, estimated at $177 billion, in its revenue funds to sustain social and public services. 
Iran's regime, which faces great public dissatisfaction and has significantly smaller financial reserves, might encounter more substantial challenges. If oil prices continue to hover around $80 a barrel through this year, Iran's revenue will drop by about 12%-15%. Tehran's currency reserves stand at an estimated $80 billion, however, which will help the regime buy time. 
Another consequence of the oil-price fall is that most oil exporters will dip into their sovereign wealth and revenue funds to fund their budgets. Since most of these investments are held outside their countries, this wealth retransfer will influence global markets as significant amounts of capital will fly back to the producers. 
All of this will have mixed foreign-policy outcomes. It certainly will not prompt Russia to withdraw from Crimea. What it may do is increase Moscow's motivation to de-escalate the crisis with Ukraine and renew the gas flows for the winter -- supplies that have been suspended since June. Earlier this month, President Putin signaled his readiness to renew gas supplies to Ukraine, although an agreement still has not been reached. 
While the oil-price drop will deprive Moscow of resources to expand its military interventions, Russia is likely to continue its low-profile interference in neighboring states, as seen when it threatened Moldova with economic retaliation after Moldova signed the EU Association Agreement in June. 
The impact of lower oil prices on economic sanctions against Russia and Iran will also be mixed. There probably won't be much global pressure to reduce sanctions to get more oil flowing from these two states. But the Continent's economic slump means Europe is less likely to support additional and sustained sanctions on Russia. 
There will also be consequences from worsening economic trends and the oil-price drop. In periods of austerity, there often is a switch in power generation from natural gas to coal in markets where coal is cheaper, such as Europe and Asia. This could be bad news in the short term for those hoping to conclude new contracts for U.S. natural-gas exports. It is also bad news for climate-change-prevention policy, which loses support when the economy slumps. 
As oil and gas profits plummet, companies will abandon some mega projects and investment in new technologies. Many oil companies, such as Total, are already engaging in major divestment activity and many, such as Italy's ENI and BP, reported losses in the last quarter. The drop in the oil price could also end the trend of delinking gas-supply contracts from the price of oil. 
In evaluating the potential impact of the drop in the oil price on Russia, Iran and other oil-dependent states, the key thing to remember is that an economic downturn doesn't necessarily temper foreign-policy behavior. In some cases it has the opposite effect. As with economic sanctions, austerity doesn't always stir people's resentment against their own governments either. It can galvanize them against foreign enemies alleged, and perceived, to be the cause of their economic misery. 
Ms. Shaffer is a visiting researcher and professor at Georgetown University's Center for Eurasian, Russian and East European Studies. 
Credit: By Brenda Shaffer 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Petroleum industry; Sanctions; Subsidies; Natural gas; Economic trends; Crude oil prices; Petroleum production; Geopolitics  
Location  United States--US; Russia; Germany  
People  Putin, Vladimir  

Company / organization  Name: Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries--OPEC NAICS: 813910;  
Name: International Bank for Reconstruction & Development--World Bank NAICS: 928120  
Classification  9180: International 1210: Politics & political behavior 8510: Petroleum industry  

Title  How Plunging Oil Scrambles Geopolitics  
Author  Shaffer, Brenda  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.13  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Oct 31, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1618314093  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1618314093?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  

Last updated 2017-11-21 
Database US Newsstream 
document 273 of 376 


Corporate News: Northern Shipping Volume Increases as Arctic Ice Melts 
Dawson, Chester.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]30 Oct 2014: B.4. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Corporate+News%3A+Northern+Shipping+Volume+Increases+as+Arct 10-30&volume=&issue=&spage=B.4&au=Dawson%2C+Chester&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Scientists have said burning fossil fuels helps to contribute to global warming, causing sea levels to rise. 

Full Text 
Cargo shipping volume through the Northern Sea Route is rising as Arctic ice melts, according to a new report. 
The opening up of the Arctic for commercial cargo offers a faster route for some shipments between Europe and Asia, and holds the promise of increased trade for once icebound ports in the High North of Arctic countries such as Russia, Norway and Canada. 
However, much of the new traffic through Northern Sea Route is one-way shipments of fossil fuels from Northern Europe to Asia or is between Russian ports, according to a report to be released Friday by the Arctic Institute, a Washington think tank. 
The institute said 71 ships carried 1.35 million tons of goods through the route last year. That was up from 46 vessels with 1.26 million tons of cargo the previous year. 
The majority of ships originated in Russia and many were from one Russian port to another in the country. Only 41 vessels traveled the full length of the Arctic shipping lane, and of those, 30 ships carried cargo, the report said. 
"There's a lot of talk about it becoming a sort of highway from Europe to Asia, but that's not really what we're seeing yet," said Malte Humpert, the institute's executive director. Developing Arctic sea ports has become an important objective of the Russian government, he said. 
The Arctic Institute report analyzed data from the Northern Sea Route Information Office, which is run by the Norway's nonprofit Centre for High North Logistics. 
The route, also known as the Northeast Passage, hugs Russia's northern border and typically is easier to navigate and has less ice buildup than the Northwest Passage, another Arctic route that gets fewer ships and lies closer to Canada. Both routes are only traversable during a short season from late summer to early fall before freezing up again, though that season has lengthened because of climate change. Scientists have said burning fossil fuels helps to contribute to global warming, causing sea levels to rise. 
Of the international cargo-bearing voyages using the Northern Sea Route, the Arctic Institute's report said 67% involved shipments oil products. More goods were shipped from Europe to Asia than the other way around, with more ballast than cargo heading from Asia to Europe, it said. 
That Arctic route shaves close to two weeks off a typical voyage from China to Europe -- a trip that usually requires sailing through the Suez Canal. Companies whose ships plied the Northern Sea Route between Asia and Europe last year include Nordic Bulk Carriers, a unit of Newport, R.I.'s Pangea Logistics Solutions Ltd., and Athens-based Tsakos Columbia Ship Management SA, according to the NSR Information Office. 
Last year, a coal-laden cargo ship became the first bulk carrier to traverse the Northwest Passage through Canadian Arctic waters. That journey cut four days of travel time from a trip between Vancouver, British Columbia, and Pori, Finland. 
Credit: By Chester Dawson 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Climate change; 
Fossil fuels; 
Shipping industry; 
Ice; 

Global warming; 
Shipments 


Location 	Arctic region; Norway; Russia; Canada; Europe; Asia; Northwest Passage; Northern Europe 
Title 	Corporate News: Northern Shipping Volume Increases as Arctic Ice Melts 
Author 	Dawson, Chester 
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.4  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Oct 30, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1618020999  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1618020999?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 274 of 376 


World News: Australian College's Plans Revive Debate On Climate 
Taylor, Rob.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]14 Oct 2014: A.16. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=World+News%3A+Australian+College%27s+Plans+Revive+Debate+On+ 10-14&volume=&issue=&spage=A.16&au=Taylor%2C+Rob&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
CANBERRA, Australia -- A plan by a top college here to sell shares in seven resources companies, citing the contribution of fossil fuels to global warming, is rekindling the issue of climate change in a country where it has already proved divisive this year. 

Full Text 
CANBERRA, Australia -- A plan by a top college here to sell shares in seven resources companies, citing the contribution of fossil fuels to global warming, is rekindling the issue of climate change in a country where it has already proved divisive this year. 
The Australian National University, or ANU, announced on Oct. 3 that it plans to sell its stakes in companies including oil-and-gas producer Santos Ltd. and mining company Iluka Resources Ltd. after a review by the Canberra-based university that rated stocks on the basis of their environmental and social responsibility. 
ANU's approach mirrors moves in the U.S. by universities such as Stanford, which halted investments in coal-mining companies this year. 
The holdings ANU plans to sell off are small -- valued at a combined 16 million Australian dollars (US$14 million) at current prices -- and make up only 5% of the university's equity in domestic stocks. 
But its plans have drawn an angry response from companies and Australia's center-right government, underscoring how the debate continues to polarize a nation that counts commodities as its biggest exports. 
Credit: By Rob Taylor 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Mining industry; 
Colleges & universities; 
Climate change; 
Divestiture 


Location 	Australia 
Company / organization 	Name: Iluka Resources 

NAICS: 212299; 

Name: SANTOS Ltd 

NAICS: 221210; 

Name: Australian National University NAICS: 611310 
Classification 	9179: Asia & the Pacific 

1520: Energy policy 

3400: Investment analysis & personal finance 

8306: Schools and educational services 


Title 	World News: Australian College's Plans Revive Debate On Climate 
Author 	Taylor, Rob 
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.16  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Oct 14, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1610884793  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1610884793?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 275 of 376 


Plotting an American-Style Fracking Revolution in Britain 
Jahncke, Red.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]13 Oct 2014: A.17. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Plotting+an+American­Style+Fracking+Revolution+in+Britain&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2014-10­13&volume=&issue=&spage=A.17&au=Jahncke%2C+Red&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
According to the Environmental Defense Fund, "Coal-fired power plants are the primary source of toxic mercury air emissions in the U.S. Mercury pollution contaminates our land and waters, causing serious human health impacts." 

Full Text 
The U.S. is surging into global leadership in petroleum production, surpassing Saudi Arabia. At the same time, America's greenhouse-gas emissions are declining and U.S. energy costs are the envy of the industrialized world. These astonishing developments have been made possible by the U.S.-pioneered techniques of horizontal drilling and hydraulic-fracturing, better known as "fracking." 
James Ratcliffe, the British billionaire and CEO of the European petrochemical giant Ineos, has taken notice. He wants to launch fracking in the United Kingdom with his company in the lead. Last month Mr. Ratcliffe announced a bold offer to his countrymen: Ineos will pay 4% royalties to landowners plus 2% royalties to municipalities on fracking revenue, far more than currently offered by developers. Mr. Ratcliffe means to spark an American-style fracking revolution. 
On the strength of fracking, U.S. petroleum production (oil and liquid gas) has surged over the past decade to 11.5 million barrels a day from 7.3 million, according to the International Energy Agency. Additionally, U.S. natural-gas production has increased 30%, leading to a doubling in natural gas-fired power generation to about 27% of total generation, replacing coal nearly megawatt for megawatt. Since natural gas-fired power generation emits only half the greenhouse gases as coal-fired, fracking is a significant contributor to the roughly 7% decline in U.S. carbon-dioxide emissions over the last decade. 
The U.K. is headed in the opposite direction -- a big decline in oil and gas production from its North Sea fields. Britain faces somewhat of a crisis, since natural gas fires about 40% of power generation and oil about 30% with coal and nuclear accounting for most of the rest (the U.S. has virtually no oil-fired power generation). Not surprisingly, U.K. petroleum imports are increasing rapidly and the nation is embarking upon a crash program to convert to other fuels. 
And that brings us to Drax, the ominous sounding name of a monstrous power station in York that supplies 7% of the U.K.'s power. Drax is converting from coal to biomass fuel, providing a good look at whether "green energy" offers a realistic alternative to natural gas. Drax is converting to wood pellets, specifically, wood pellets mostly imported from the southern U.S. (Beware, Southern conservationists.) Since imported wood pellets cost three times local coal, the British government is allowing Drax to charge twice the average going rate for electricity. That's hardly going to spur economic growth. 
The conversion has many skeptics on environmental grounds as well. The British government's own Department of Energy and Climate Change issued a report in July stating that "it may be possible to meet" targeted lower emissions levels by converting to wood pellets, but the conversion "could lead to high greenhouse gas intensities, e.g. greater than electricity from coal." 
Use of wood as biomass fuel involves a highly uncertain environmental impact whereas the impact of natural gas is quite predictable and beneficial. As observed by the International Energy Agency, "Natural Gas is seen as a good source of electricity supply for a number of economic, operational and environmental reasons: it is low-risk (technically and financially), lower carbon relative to other fossil fuels, and gas plants can be built relatively quickly in around two years." 
Green energy power generation represents only niche operations in both the U.S. and the U.K. The most significant green source in America, wind power, delivers only 4% of electric power. In general, green power generation is not scalable, or, at least to date, it hasn't been scaled. 
So, is it any wonder that Mr. Ratcliffe has seized upon fracking as the U.K.'s only realistic option to meet the three goals of delivering power in scale volume, at reasonable expense and on a reduced greenhouse gas emissions basis? 
But what about the public health and safety concerns? Hydraulic fracturing, as its name suggests, uses water mixed with sand and chemicals, some toxic, to help remove the natural gas or oil from shale formations. Groundwater contamination has been found at some U.S. drilling sites, but environmentalists and industry experts are at odds about the risks posed to groundwater and aquifers near drilling sites. 
If, out of total risk aversion, we were to shut down all fracking operations in the U.S. tomorrow, the primary alternative would be continued heavy reliance on coal, which still accounts for almost 40% of power generated in the U.S. and entails significant public health risks, aside from climate change. According to the Environmental Defense Fund, "Coal-fired power plants are the primary source of toxic mercury air emissions in the U.S. Mercury pollution contaminates our land and waters, causing serious human health impacts." Many of these plants are near U.S. urban centers, according to the EDF. In contrast, most fracking is carried out in sparsely populated rural locations. 
On virtually all counts, the case in the immediate and intermediate term favors fracking and fracked natural gas over green-energy sources, even allowing for some groundwater contamination and ground-level air pollution, which is declining as drillers -- and regulators -- gain more knowledge and expertise. For example, Colorado has passed regulations aimed at reducing gas emissions at the wellhead with the support of the four largest drillers in the state. One, Encana Corp., has already implemented Colorado-style compliance in its operations in Wyoming, which has no such regulations. No doubt, even more can be done. 
Americans may be taking for granted their great good fortune and dramatic comeback in energy -- especially when compared with the U.K.'s predicament -- and ignoring that fracking is the driving force behind it. Mr. Ratcliffe's proposal should serve to highlight and validate the benefits of fracking. Sometimes it is only when someone else wants what you have that you realize its value. 
Mr. Jahncke is president of the Townsend Group, a management consulting firm in Greenwich, Conn. Credit: By Red Jahncke 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Proposals;  
Hydraulic fracturing  
Location  United States--US; United Kingdom--UK  
People  Ratcliffe, Jim  
Company / organization  Name: Ineos Group Ltd  
NAICS: 325194, 551112  
Classification  9190: United States  
9175: Western Europe  
8510: Petroleum industry  
Title  Plotting an American-Style Fracking Revolution in Britain  
Author  Jahncke, Red  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.17  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Oct 13, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1610717310  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1610717310?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  

Database US Newsstream 
document 276 of 376 


The Rockefellers Reject Oil 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]11 Oct 2014: A.12. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=The+Rockefellers+Reject+Oil&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999 10-11&volume=&issue=&spage=A.12&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Speaking of inconsistencies, it's also worth noting that even as the Rockefeller Brothers Fund is publicly swearing off fossil fuels, it's not divesting from the biggest oil company in the U.S.: Exxon Mobil Corp., the largest successor to John D.'s Standard Oil. 

Full Text 
The heirs to John D. Rockefeller's oil fortune are getting out of the fossil fuels business, as you may have heard from their many media admirers. That was the news last month after the Rockefeller Brothers Fund, with close to $860 million in assets, announced that it would divest the roughly 7% of its funds currently in fossil fuels. 
"The action we're taking is symbolism, but it is important symbolism," said fund president Stephen Heintz. "We're making a moral case, but also, increasingly, an economic case." Mr. Heintz and the family he represents can reach their own moral conclusions about disavowing the energy industry that made them rich. But allow us to report a few of the economic -- and environmental -- facts. 
Start with the term "divest," which seems to have acquired the connotation of "magically make disappear" when it merely means "sell." The Rockefeller holdings are only moving from one pair of hands to another -- and likely at a tidy profit for the fund. The Dow Jones U.S. Oil and Gas Index is up 10% over the past year alone, though big-coal stocks are down. We trust that whatever money the fund makes from its divestment will be re-invested in something virtuous. 
The same goes for every other institution that "divests" its fossil-fuel holdings. The Rockefeller Brothers announcement is a piece of a larger effort, called the Global Divest/Invest Coalition, that so far has succeeded in enlisting some 180 institutions and local governments to sever ties with fossil-fuel businesses. The United Nations is a big supporter. The coalition crows that this represents $50 billion in investment, which sounds like a lot of money -- until you remember that the investment is still being made, only by someone else. 
And likely to their financial benefit. There's a reason institutional investors such as Calpers, which talk a good game about climate change, aren't joining the divestment party: Major energy companies have been a mainstay of Calpers's investment returns for retirees. Ditto for the Teacher Retirement System of Texas, which last year unveiled a new dedicated fund for energy investments worth 3% -- or $3.5 billion -- of its $117.5 billion in assets. 
Also not joining this symbolic crusade are the major universities. Although Stanford recently made news by divesting from coal, it continues to make money from oil and gas. The University of California Regents voted last month against divesting, while Harvard and Yale -- the two largest endowments in the country, with a combined $53 billion in assets in 2013 -- have also declined to join the moral self-congratulation. 
"Logic and experience indicate that barring investments in a major, integral sector of the global economy would -- especially for a large endowment reliant on sophisticated economic techniques, pooled funds, and broad diversification -- come at a substantial cost," wrote Harvard President Drew Faust last year, explaining the University's refusal to join the divestment brigades. 
"I also find a troubling inconsistency," she added, "in the notion that, as an investor, we should boycott a whole class of companies at the same time that, as individuals and as a community, we are extensively relying on those companies products and services for so much of what we do every day." 
Speaking of inconsistencies, it's also worth noting that even as the Rockefeller Brothers Fund is publicly swearing off fossil fuels, it's not divesting from the biggest oil company in the U.S.: Exxon Mobil Corp., the largest successor to John D.'s Standard Oil. Mr. Heintz told Bloomberg that continued ownership allows the fund to "press the oil and gas producer to account for its carbon assets." Why the same logic doesn't apply to other producers is a mystery perhaps only he can answer. Numerous Rockefeller heirs with ties to the fund retain their personal Exxon Mobil stock. It's up about 11% on the year. 
Meantime, those tempted to join the Rockefellers' "moral" crusade might consider that the U.S. has decreased its carbon output tonnage more than any country, mostly thanks to the innovations of fracking and horizontal drilling, which have led to the natural gas shale revolution. These carbon reductions would never have happened if previous generations of Rockefellers had refused to invest in fossil fuels. 
All of which makes the divestment campaign less about economic logic than a self-defeating act of moral posturing. 
(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: What Would John D. Think About This?" -- WSJ Oct. 16, 2014 and "Letters to the Editor: We Are Trying to Save Us All From Disaster" -- WSJ October 18, 2014) 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Fossil fuels; 
Petroleum industry; 


Divestments;  
Institutional investments;  
Editorials -- Rockefeller Brothers Fund Inc  
Location  United States--US  
Company / organization  Name: United Nations--UN  
NAICS: 928120;  
Name: Teacher Retirement System-Texas  
NAICS: 525110  
Classification  9190: United States  
3400: Investment analysis & personal finance  
Title  The Rockefellers Reject Oil  
Author  Anonymous  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.12  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Oct 11, 2014  
column  REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  1609918169  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1609918169?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 277 of 376 


The Global Warming Statistical Meltdown 
Curry, Judith.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]10 Oct 2014: A.15. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=The+Global+Warming+Statistical+Meltdown&title=Wall+Street+Jour 10-10&volume=&issue=&spage=A.15&au=Curry%2C+Judith&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
According to the U.N. Framework Convention on Climate Change, preventing "dangerous human interference" with the climate is defined, rather arbitrarily, as limiting warming to no more than 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) above preindustrial temperatures. 

Full Text 
At the recent United Nations Climate Summit, Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon warned that "Without significant cuts in emissions by all countries, and in key sectors, the window of opportunity to stay within less than 2 degrees [of warming] will soon close forever." Actually, this window of opportunity may remain open for quite some time. A growing body of evidence suggests that the climate is less sensitive to increases in carbon-dioxide emissions than policy makers generally assume -- and that the need for reductions in such emissions is less urgent. 
According to the U.N. Framework Convention on Climate Change, preventing "dangerous human interference" with the climate is defined, rather arbitrarily, as limiting warming to no more than 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) above preindustrial temperatures. The Earth's surface temperatures have already warmed about 0.8 degrees Celsius since 1850-1900. This leaves 1.2 degrees Celsius (about 2.2 degrees Fahrenheit) to go. 
In its most optimistic projections, which assume a substantial decline in emissions, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) projects that the "dangerous" level might never be reached. In its most extreme, pessimistic projections, which assume heavy use of coal and rapid population growth, the threshold could be exceeded as early as 2040. But these projections reflect the effects of rising emissions on temperatures simulated by climate models, which are being challenged by recent observations. 
Human-caused warming depends not only on increases in greenhouse gases but also on how "sensitive" the climate is to these increases. Climate sensitivity is defined as the global surface warming that occurs when the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere doubles. If climate sensitivity is high, then we can expect substantial warming in the coming century as emissions continue to increase. If climate sensitivity is low, then future warming will be substantially lower, and it may be several generations before we reach what the U.N. considers a dangerous level, even with high emissions. 
The IPCC's latest report (published in 2013) concluded that the actual change in 70 years if carbon-dioxide concentrations double, called the transient climate response, is likely in the range of 1 to 2.5 degrees Celsius. Most climate models have transient climate response values exceeding 1.8 degrees Celsius. But the IPCC report notes the substantial discrepancy between recent observation-based estimates of climate sensitivity and estimates from climate models. 
Nicholas Lewis and I have just published a study in Climate Dynamics that shows the best estimate for transient climate response is 1.33 degrees Celsius with a likely range of 1.05-1.80 degrees Celsius. Using an observation-based energy-balance approach, our calculations used the same data for the effects on the Earth's energy balance of changes in greenhouse gases, aerosols and other drivers of climate change given by the IPCC's latest report. 
We also estimated what the long-term warming from a doubling of carbon-dioxide concentrations would be, once the deep ocean had warmed up. Our estimates of sensitivity, both over a 70-year time-frame and long term, are far lower than the average values of sensitivity determined from global climate models that are used for warming projections. Also our ranges are narrower, with far lower upper limits than reported by the IPCC's latest report. Even our upper limits lie below the average values of climate models. 
Our paper is not an outlier. More than a dozen other observation-based studies have found climate sensitivity values lower than those determined using global climate models, including recent papers published in Environmentrics (2012),Nature Geoscience (2013) and Earth Systems Dynamics (2014). These new climate sensitivity estimates add to the growing evidence that climate models are running "too hot." Moreover, the estimates in these empirical studies are being borne out by the much-discussed "pause" or "hiatus" in global warming -- the period since 1998 during which global average surface temperatures have not significantly increased. 
This pause in warming is at odds with the 2007 IPCC report, which expected warming to increase at a rate of 0.2 degrees Celsius per decade in the early 21st century. The warming hiatus, combined with assessments that the climate-model sensitivities are too high, raises serious questions as to whether the climate-model projections of 21st­century temperatures are fit for making public-policy decisions. 
The sensitivity of the climate to increasing concentrations of carbon dioxide is a central question in the debate on the appropriate policy response to increasing carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. Climate sensitivity and estimates of its uncertainty are key inputs into the economic models that drive cost-benefit analyses and estimates of the social cost of carbon. 
Continuing to rely on climate-model warming projections based on high, model-derived values of climate sensitivity skews the cost-benefit analyses and estimates of the social cost of carbon. This can bias policy decisions. The implications of the lower values of climate sensitivity in our paper, as well as similar other recent studies, is that human-caused warming near the end of the 21st century should be less than the 2-degrees-Celsius "danger" level for all but the IPCC's most extreme emission scenario. 
This slower rate of warming -- relative to climate model projections -- means there is less urgency to phase out greenhouse gas emissions now, and more time to find ways to decarbonize the economy affordably. It also allows us the flexibility to revise our policies as further information becomes available. 
Ms. Curry, a professor and former chairwoman of the School of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences at the Georgia Institute of Technology, is the president of Climate Forecast Applications Network. 
Credit: By Judith Curry 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Climate change;  
Greenhouse effect;  
Carbon dioxide;  
Estimates;  
Global warming;  
Emissions control  
People  Ban Ki Moon  
Company / organization  Name: Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change  
NAICS: 928120, 541712  
Title  The Global Warming Statistical Meltdown  
Author  Curry, Judith  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.15  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Oct 10, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1609467875  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1609467875?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 278 of 376 


Unrealistic Green Expectations 
Leonard, Jeffrey.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]07 Oct 2014: A.15. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Unrealistic+Green+Expectations&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999 10-07&volume=&issue=&spage=A.15&au=Leonard%2C+Jeffrey&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
America can use the cushion of booming natural-gas production and the renewal of existing nuclear plants to put in place a national energy strategy to boost the economy and cut greenhouse-gas emissions. A user tax on industries and households, based on the carbon content of their energy sources, would induce consumers to push for efficiency gains across the entire electricity system -- spawning new investments in power-generation technologies such as cogeneration, waste-heat recovery and improved transmission and distribution systems. 

Full Text 
The Rockefeller Brothers Fund, and heirs to the Rockefeller fortune, recently pledged to divest fossil-fuel holdings, joining endowed institutions, local governments and wealthy individuals representing over $50 billion in assets. Sun Microsystems founder Vinod Khosla recently told CNN's Fareed Zakaria that the federal government should revitalize the Energy Department's $6 billion loan-guarantees program to spark commercialization of new technologies. 
The intention is to catapult America toward the end of the fossil-fuel era, evoking historical images of the Manhattan Project or Apollo Program. Yet America lacks a strategic vision to move the economy on an accelerating path toward cost-effective, low-carbon energy sources. The increased production of domestic oil and natural gas in the U.S. heartland provides a needed boost to the economy, so this must form part of the equation for a long-term transitional strategy. This is not just about climate change. More-efficient energy technologies are keys to future global competitiveness. 
A transitional bridge to lower-carbon energy is already forming in America's vast electricity supply system, as coal is in natural decline. But lower-carbon-emitting natural gas is essential for this transition, displacing coal, almost megawatt for megawatt. The fallacy of the no-fossil-fuel movement is that elimination of natural gas would stunt the transition, and cause untold harm to our economy due to energy shortages and high-cost electricity. Wind and solar power alone will not be enough to meet America's bulk electricity needs. Yet, due to more renewables and natural gas, greenhouse-gas emissions associated with electricity production have fallen. 
Also, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission is extending the licenses of most U.S. nuclear power plants for another 20 years. These plants currently account for 20% of baseload 
U.S. electricity generation capacity. If they were shut down now they could only be replaced by repowering mothballed coal plants. 
These trends buy time to develop new energy technologies. America can use the cushion of booming natural-gas production and the renewal of existing nuclear plants to put in place a national energy strategy to boost the economy and cut greenhouse-gas emissions. The pillars of such an energy strategy are: 1) a multi-decade commitment to invest in the basic research and development behind a multiplicity of new energy technologies; and 2) a gradual and incremental tax on carbon emissions. 
We need diverse technological R&D paths because we don't know where the winners will come from. For example, a new generation of more-efficient nuclear technologies -­with lower capital costs and waste challenges resolved -- could pay big dividends for the future -- just in time for the end of life of current nuclear plants. 
A long-term commitment to revitalizing federal energy R&D programs should harness America's world-leading university research facilities and national laboratories -- which have seen funding for basic research chopped. Such programs should focus on basic science, not commercialization subsidies. The strengths of American corporations and venture capitalists are precisely in mobilizing capital and the creativity of commercialization when linked into the basic science -- as demonstrated by successful commercial spinoffs from prior federal R&D programs such as Advanced Research Projects Agency Network (Arpanet). 
As an economist, I believe that a carbon tax on energy producers and users will inevitably change energy markets to favor lower and noncarbon fuel sources. A carbon tax could be gradually introduced for bulk electricity generators. If state and federal regulators don't allow these added costs to be passed on to consumers through the rate base, this will bite into the profits of heavy carbon users. A user tax on industries and households, based on the carbon content of their energy sources, would induce consumers to push for efficiency gains across the entire electricity system -- spawning new investments in power-generation technologies such as cogeneration, waste-heat recovery and improved transmission and distribution systems. 
A carbon tax would also initiate a race among manufacturers to develop more efficient motors, pumps, data centers and other electricity-using technologies. No other more complex solutions -- e.g., cap and trade, which fascinates academics and tax accountants -- would have such a profound, permanent and positive impact on the energy landscape of the future. 
To engage the public in a two-pronged program of R&D plus carbon taxes, and make it budget neutral, 30-year energy R&D bonds could finance the technology-development programs. The annualized amortization of these bonds would be supported by the carbon taxes collected from energy users. 
It is not very complicated, but the agenda has to be incremental and ironclad to be successful. Not a leapfrog moon shot to find some carbon-fuel alternative overnight. And not subject to pork-barrel earmarks or periodic review by a politicized Congress. 
Mr. Leonard is CEO of Global Environment Fund, an alternative-asset investment-management firm, and a member of the board of New America, an independent think tank. 
(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: Green Environment and Lots of Our Green Tax Dollars" -- WSJ October 15, 2014) 
Credit: By Jeffrey Leonard 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Emissions; Natural gas; Energy policy; Energy industry; Electric utilities; Nuclear power plants; Research & development--R&D; Carbon; Industrial plant emissions; Energy resources; Capital costs; Coal-fired power plants; Commercialization; Electricity generation; Environmental tax; Fossil fuels  
Location  United States--US  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Nuclear Regulatory Commission--NRC 926130  
Classification  1520: Energy policy 9190: United States  
Title  Unrealistic Green Expectations  
Author  Leonard, Jeffrey  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.15  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Oct 7, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1599379859  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1599379859?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  

Last updated 2017-11-21 
Database US Newsstream 
document 279 of 376 


Double Trouble Carbon Regulation 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]01 Oct 2014: A.16. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Double+Trouble+Carbon+Regulation&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn 10-01&volume=&issue=&spage=A.16&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The D.C. Circuit already tossed one EPA rule in 2008 for ignoring the distinction between Clean Air Act sections 111 and 112, and the Supreme Court distinguished national and state-by-state standards in the 2011 American Electric Power v. Connecticut decision. 

Full Text 
President Obama prophesied at the United Nations last week that climate change is the "one issue that will define the contours of this century more dramatically than any other," and perhaps this vision of Apocalypse explains why he thinks he can disregard the law to regulate carbon. Whatever they think about warming, the courts may pay more respect to statutes. 
This month a three-judge panel of the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals agreed to hear a challenge to the Environmental Protection Agency's new climate rules under the Clean Air Act. The order was unusual because the courts generally review rules only after they are finalized, which could take another year or more. The Ohio-based coal company Murray Energy and a dozen states are suing under the All Writs Act of 1789. 
Murray drew a D.C. Circuit panel including a liberal (Judge Sri Srinivasan), a moderate (Judge Thomas Griffith) and a conservative (senior Judge Douglas Ginsburg). Murray also happens to be correct on the legal merits. 
The EPA wants to reorganize U.S. electric power generation and drive coal and eventually natural gas out of the energy mix under a rarely used backwater of the Clean Air Act called section 111(d), whose mandates apply state by state. The problem is that the law also includes a clause meant to prevent double regulation: Air pollutants that are controlled at the national level under the act's section 112 are therefore specifically excluded from section 111 control. Carbon emissions, under a separate 2012 rule, are already subject to 112, but the EPA wants to have it both ways. 
In a legal memorandum, the EPA claims that "a literal reading of that language would mean that the EPA could not regulate any air pollutant from a source category regulated under section 112," and thus such a reading is "not reasonable." In other words, obeying the law would not let the agency do what it wants to do, so the law must go. 
Murray is seeking a writ of mandamus, a type of injunction the courts only grant when the government has taken an extraordinary action beyond its statutory authority. Such relief is appropriate here because states and utilities are already spending billions of dollars to start to comply with EPA dictates long before the rule-making is finished. Nor is there any benefit to waiting, because the suit challenges not this or that detail but the agency's underlying legal authority. 
The D.C. Circuit already tossed one EPA rule in 2008 for ignoring the distinction between Clean Air Act sections 111 and 112, and the Supreme Court distinguished national and state-by-state standards in the 2011 American Electric Power v. Connecticut decision. The courts seem increasingly alarmed by abuses of executive power, especially in environmental law, so Murray Energy v. EPA is a good opportunity for the D.C. Circuit to define the contours of Mr. Obama's Presidency. 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Court hearings & proceedings; 
Environmental regulations; 

Clean Air Act-US; 
Carbon; 
Emissions; 

Editorials -- Environmental regulations 


Location 	United States--US 
Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 

NAICS: 924110; 

Name: US Court of Appeals-District of Columbia Circuit NAICS: 922110 
Classification 9190: United States 1540: Pollution control 
4300: Law 
Title  Double Trouble Carbon Regulation  
Author  Anonymous  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.16  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Oct 1, 2014  
column  REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  1566578257  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1566578257?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 280 of 376 


Unleashing Innovation: Energy (A Special Report) --- Why Peak-Oil Predictions Haven't Come True -­and Probably Won't: More experts now believe technology will continue to unlock new sources and expand supplies for decades to come 
Gold, Russell.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]29 Sep 2014: R.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Unleashing+Innovation%3A+Energy+%28A+Special+Report%29+­--+Why+Peak-Oil+Predictions+Haven%27t+Come+True+-­+and+Probably+Won%27t%3A+More+experts+now+believe+technology+will+continue+to+unlock+new+sources+and+expand+supplies+for+decades+to+come&title=Wall+Stre 09-29&volume=&issue=&spage=R.1&au=Gold%2C+Russell&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The world's oil production tops out and then starts an inexorable decline -- sending costs soaring and forcing nations to lay down strict rationing programs and battle for shrinking reserves. The peak-oil boosters argue that instead of plowing money into new ways to find oil, we should be conserving what we have and investing in alternative energy sources so that we're prepared when supplies run low and costs soar. 

Full text 
Have we beaten "peak oil"? 
For decades, it has been a doomsday scenario looming large in the popular imagination: The world's oil production tops out and then starts an inexorable decline -- sending costs soaring and forcing nations to lay down strict rationing programs and battle for shrinking reserves. 
U.S. oil production did peak in the 1970s and sank for decades after, exactly as the theory predicted. But then it did something the theory didn't predict: It started rising again in 2009, and hasn't stopped, thanks to a leap forward in oil-field technology. 
To the peak-oil adherents, this is just a respite, and decline is inevitable. But a growing tide of oil-industry experts argue that peak oil looks at the situation in the wrong way. The real constraints we face are technological and economic, they say. We're limited not by the amount of oil in the ground, but by how inventive we are about reaching new sources of fuel and how much we're willing to pay to get at it. 
"Technology moves so quickly today that any looming resource constraint will be nothing more than a blip," says petroleum economist Phil Verleger. "We adjust." 
Whether peak oil exists is more than just a point of intellectual debate -- although it certainly has proved to be a heated and divisive one for decades. The question -- and how we think about it -- also has a big potential impact for governments, oil producers and ordinary people across the globe, all of whom depend on the vagaries of oil production and would be threatened by soaring costs and shortages. 
The peak-oil boosters argue that instead of plowing money into new ways to find oil, we should be conserving what we have and investing in alternative energy sources so that we're prepared when supplies run low and costs soar. Most of the naysayers agree that we shouldn't stick with oil forever. But they think it's wiser to invest in technology to keep expanding the available supply, until it gets too expensive to do so. At that point, they're confident, we'll be able to come up with an economical alternative. 
Peak oil was most widely popularized by M. King Hubbert, a brilliant -- and egotistic, by some accounts -- geologist who worked for years at Shell Oil. In a 1956 paper, he predicted that U.S. oil production would peak, probably in the early 1970s, and then decline. It would resemble a bell curve. 
This came to be called Hubbert's peak and later peak oil. The idea gained enormous popularity when U.S. oil output did in fact peak in the early 1970s. It took hold at a time when the nation was prepared to believe the worst: Drivers were waiting in long gas lines, and the nation felt it was groaning under the yoke of OPEC. Forecasters like Paul Ehrlich became celebrities with dire warnings of overpopulation and exhaustion of natural resources. 
As the theory took hold, it helped justify increased investments in alternative energy, and informed some expert thinking about the future of energy. More recently, the theory saw a surge of interest a few years ago when oil prices were high and seemed stuck there. 
"Welcome to the world beyond Hubbert's peak," wrote Kenneth Deffeyes, one of the adherents of peak oil, in 2008. 
Then the data took a detour from the bell curve. In 2008, the U.S. produced five million barrels a day. In 2009, U.S. oil production began to rise -- at first slowly, then quickly. It is still rising today. Through the first half of 2014, it averaged 8.3 million barrels a day. 
What changed? An innovation in oil-field technology, which peak-oil theory didn't anticipate. Energy companies combined hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling to wring oil out of super-tight rock formations in North America. The industry figured out that pumping chemically slickened water and sand into shales could create thousands of fractures, each one a tiny path for energy molecules to travel into a well. 
At first, drillers targeted natural gas because they thought oil molecules were too big to be extracted. But fracking worked to make oil wells, also. Innovations allowed the industry to locate its frack jobs better and increase density. Now other countries are starting to apply the same techniques and may see the same kinds of gains. 
With the recent boom have come arguments that peak oil underestimates the power of innovation. Indeed, many oil experts say, the industry has a history of turning up new supplies just when prospects look bleak. 
A century ago, the energy industry found giant new oil fields in Texas and California just as fears spread that oil output had peaked. As production in the U.S. began to decline, other regions picked up the slack: the North Sea, Nigeria and Saudi Arabia. Technical innovations such as using sound waves to locate oil fields through thousands of feet of water and rock spurred a boom in deep-water drilling. 
More broadly, peak-oil naysayers argue, the theory looks at the problem in the wrong way -- focusing on the physical supply instead of our ingenuity in being able to reach it. "There has to be a finite limit" of oil and gas in buried reserves, says George King, a global technology consultant for Apache Corp. But the constraint on how much oil can be produced isn't geological, he believes: "We face technical and economic limits more than anything else." 
And Mr. King is an optimist about our ability to overcome technical limits. "This is an inventive industry," he says. 
One of his responsibilities at Apache, a Houston-based oil and gas company, is to stay abreast of new technologies that could boost output in years ahead. For example, he is paying attention to new ways of squeezing more oil out of tight reservoirs. When rocks are fracked, a large amount of oil remains left behind. Fracking tends to free the lighter, smaller gas and oil molecules but leaves behind heavier and stickier molecules. 
One idea calls for using carbon dioxide to flood into the tight rocks and push oil out ahead of it. Another is to use nanochemistry to reduce surface tension and lift oil molecules off rock, much like a detergent lifts stains. "Some companies have really neat ideas" along these lines, he says. 
To be sure, the peak-oil naysayers don't think we should wholly embrace oil for all time, just that we shouldn't try to speed up any transition to alternatives in anticipation of short supplies. After all, misguided energy policy can have very bad outcomes. For instance, in the 1970s, the U.S. thought it was running out of natural gas, and Congress prohibited building any new power plants that used it. Instead, we built lots of coal plants -- about half of the modern coal fleet -- that burdened us with a legacy of dirty air in some cities. Not to mention that in the past few years, we have tapped an abundance of natural-gas supplies. 
And naysayers agree that while they don't believe supply limits loom, economic limits remain. When the oil industry overcomes an obstacle and boosts oil production, costs typically increase. That opens the door for a better and cheaper energy source that will eventually displace crude oil. 
So at some point, the cost of getting more and more oil likely will get so high that buyers can't -- or won't -- pay. 
This is an issue the late petroleum economist Morris Adelman wrestled with. "No mineral, including oil, will ever be exhausted. If and when the cost of finding and extraction goes above the price consumers are willing to pay, the industry will begin to disappear," he wrote in "The Genie out of the Bottle: World Oil Since 1970," a book published in 1995. Mr. Adelman, a professor emeritus of economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, died earlier this year at 96. 
Already, economics is bringing about some changes. Despite the abundance of oil that fracking has delivered, global oil prices remain high. This has kept the door wide open for alternative sources of energy and spending on energy efficiency. Natural gas has been grabbing market share from oil for years. A few decades ago, heating oil kept American homes snug; now it's natural gas. And gas is making inroads in transportation -- trucks and trains -- as are electric cars. 
What's more, climate change has altered the calculus. More advocates are pushing for alternative, low-carbon fuels to slow the rising level of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. They argue that the possibility of running out of oil isn't the only reason to reduce its use; in fact, they worry that the expansion of supply is dangerous, hindering efforts to take action on the long-term threat of climate change. 
"There will be peak oil, but it will be [because of] peak consumption," says Michael Shellenberger, president of the Breakthrough Institute, an energy and climate think tank in Oakland, Calif. "What we all want is to move to better, cheaper and cleaner sources of energy." 
Mr. Shellenberger suspects that oil's long dominance in transportation is weaker than most people suspect. When something better comes along, he says, oil's days are numbered. "We will be leaving a lot of oil in the ground, in the same way we are leaving coal in the ground," he says. 
If M. King Hubbert were alive today -- he died in 1989 -- would he admit defeat? Probably not, says Mason Inman, who has written a biography of Mr. Hubbert that will be released next year. He argues that the recent shale boom is just a temporary respite in a long march downward. U.S. oil production could be about to hit a second peak, and then return to its terminal decline. 
The production boom "makes things better for a while, but it doesn't change the long-term picture," Mr. Inman says. 
If Mr. Hubbert were around, he might be dumbstruck by what he sees, Mr. Inman says. Mr. Hubbert, he says, advocated turning to solar power and energy efficiency to break the dependency on oil. 
As for the power of innovation to reach new oil reserves, Mr. Hubbert believed that technology would help extend the limits of oil production, but thought its impact was exaggerated, Mr. Inman says. He felt people would invoke technology as a kind of panacea -- which it isn't. 
There will eventually be diminishing returns, Mr. Inman says, since oil is a finite resource, even though we don't really know its limits. "He would probably say, 'You guys are crazy to be drilling this so fast and using it up and pretending it's a solution,' " says Mr. Inman. 
Mr. Gold is a Wall Street Journal staff reporter in Austin, Texas. He can be reached at russell.gold@wsj.com. 
Credit: By Russell Gold 

(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Oil reserves;  
Alternative energy;  
Petroleum industry;  
Energy policy;  
Petroleum production;  
Industrywide conditions  
Location  United States--US; California  
People  Hubbert, M King  
Classification  1110: Economic conditions & forecasts  
8510: Petroleum industry  
9190: United States  
Title  Unleashing Innovation: Energy (A Special Report) --- Why Peak-Oil Predictions Haven't Come  
True -- and Probably Won't: More experts now believe technology will continue to unlock new  
sources and expand supplies for decades to come  
Author  Gold, Russell  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  R.1  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Sep 29, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1566074058  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1566074058?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 281 of 376 


Google Kills Birds 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]26 Sep 2014: A.12. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Google+Kills+Birds&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date 09-26&volume=&issue=&spage=A.12&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
[...]ALEC takes no position on the substance of climate change. 

Full Text 
Our headline has the virtue of being true -- as we will explain -- unlike Google executive chairman Eric Schmidt's assertion this week that people who oppose government subsidies for green energy are liars. The real charlatans are businesses like Google that use climate change as a pretext for corporate welfare. 
Google, whose motto is "Don't Be Evil," announced on Monday that it is quitting the American Legislative Exchange Council (ALEC) because of the conservative outfit's putative denial of climate change. "Everyone understands climate change is occurring," said Mr. Schmidt. "And the people who oppose it are really hurting our children and our grandchildren and making the world a much worse place. And so we should not be aligned with such people -- they're just, they're just literally lying." 
In fact, ALEC takes no position on the substance of climate change. ALEC provides a forum for sundry businesses to discuss free-market reforms with state lawmakers. Two of its policy targets are renewable-energy mandates and subsidies, which are being exploited by big businesses like Google at the expense of low- and middle-income taxpayers. Google's real problem with ALEC is a conflict of pecuniary interests. 
Consider Google's pledge to fund over $1.5 billion in non fossil-fuel energy. Yet Google derives most of its energy from non-renewables on the grid because it says that "while our data centers operate 24/7, most renewable energy sources don't." Data centers consume a lot of power, and renewables can cost three times as much as fossil fuels. It's no coincidence that Google's server in Iowa is located near one of the cheapest sources of coal-fired power in the Midwest. 
Also not a coincidence is that nearly all of Google's solar and wind farms are located in states with renewable-energy mandates, which create opportunities for politically mediated profit-making. For instance, California requires that renewables make up a third of electricity by 2020. Google has invested about $600 million in California's solar plants such as the Ivanpah system in California's Mojave Desert. Ivanpah is the world's largest solar-thermal project, which is the target of environmentalists. 
Dozens of federally protected desert tortoises have been displaced or killed. The Center for Biological Diversity estimates that Ivanpah's "power towers" -- which burn natural gas -- incinerate about 28,000 birds annually. The death toll is disputed by others, but Google has made taxpayers complicit in its avian-cide. The $2.2 billion bird fryer was funded with a $1.6 billion federal loan, which Google and its business partners plan to repay by applying for a federal grant. 
The do-no-evil company has invested $157 million in a wind farm in California's Tehachapi Mountains, which has killed thousands of birds including federally protected golden eagles. Google's renewable portfolio includes a $275 million investment in two wind farms in Texas that are partly responsible for the construction of $7 billion in new transmission lines. The Texas Public Utility Commission estimates the lines will cost ratepayers on average $72 per year. Google has about $60 billion in cash and short-term investments sitting on its balance sheet. 
Most of Google's renewable investments qualify for a federal investment tax credit that covers 30% of the cost. Its $450 million investment in rooftop solar-systems also benefits from state incentives such as "net-metering" laws. This hidden subsidy compensates ratepayers for power they remit to the grid at the retail rate, which can be three times as much as the wholesale price of electricity. Net-metering allows solar companies to charge higher rates to homeowners who lease their panels, and thus for investors like Google to reap larger profits. 
ALEC as well as the right-wing radicals at the Natural Resources Defense Council and National Black Caucus of State Legislators have encouraged states to ensure that all ratepayers under net metering pay their share for maintaining the grid. 
The point is that Google behaves like all other self-interested businesses -- which also means that it bends to the political winds. Unions and progressive groups have been bullying corporations for years to abandon ALEC so the left has less political and intellectual opposition in the 50 state capitals. Earlier this month they wrote to Google denouncing ALEC's "extreme views," which "include denying climate change." 
Perhaps Google figured it could gain political benefit by joining the liberal smear campaign against ALEC. But Mr. Schmidt shouldn't disguise his company's mercenary motives behind false and trendy appeals to green political virtue. 
(See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: Google Respects the Environment" -- WSJ Sept. 29, 2014) 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Climate change; 
Alternative energy; 

Energy policy; 

Government subsidies; 
Computer centers; 
Wildlife; 
Editorials -- Google Inc 


Location  California  
People  Schmidt, Eric E  
Company / organization  Name: Google Inc  
NAICS: 519130;  
Name: American Legislative Exchange Council  
NAICS: 813910  
Classification  8331: Internet services industry  
1510: Energy resources  
9190: United States  
Title  Google Kills Birds  
Author  Anonymous  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.12  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Sep 26, 2014  
column  REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  1564848915  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1564848915?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 282 of 376 


U.S. News: Obama Promises a Push to Cut Emissions --- Despite Opposition From Lawmakers at Home, President Tells U.N. Climate Summit That U.S., China Need to Lead Way 
Mauldin, William; Sparshott, Jeffrey.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]24 Sep 2014: A.4. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+Obama+Promises+a+Push+to+Cut+Emissions+--­+Despite+Opposition+From+Lawmakers+at+Home%2C+President+Tells+U.N.+Climate+Summit+That+U.S.%2C+China+Need+to+Lead+Way&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=0 09-24&volume=&issue=&spage=A.4&au=Mauldin%2C+William%3BSparshott%2C+Jeffrey&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Despite concerns in Congress, the White House has some leverage in pushing other countries to sign on to deep emissions cuts, while also imposing tougher rules in the U.S. The Environmental Protection Agency, for instance, earlier this year proposed caps on carbon emissions by U.S. utilities, a less-comprehensive plan than the 2010 proposal. 

Full Text 
UNITED NATIONS -- President Barack Obama on Tuesday said the U.S. and China have a special responsibility as the largest carbon-dioxide emitters to lead a new effort to curb 
emissions, as he sought to enlist nations around the globe to combat climate change. 
"There is one issue that will define the contours of this century more dramatically than any other," Mr. Obama said at a U.N. climate summit in New York. "That is the urgent and 
growing threat of a changing climate." 

Mr. Obama said the U.S. is ready to lead in a new set of global climate-change talks, despite an uncertain commitment to emissions cuts in some countries and opposition by 

some U.S. lawmakers and businesses, who see the curbs as costly and based on incomplete scientific analysis. 
The president announced a set of limited measures the U.S. would take to address climate change abroad and expressed support for international programs, including a 
partnership to help oil and natural-gas companies block methane leaks. 

Mr. Obama and other heads of state visiting New York didn't lay out their plans to cut emissions beyond 2020 as part of the new set of international climate talks. Countries will put forward detailed proposals in coming months, with the talks set to come to a head at the end of next year in Paris. 
Tuesday's gathering focused more on gauging political will at the highest level to cut emissions, something that has proved elusive in past negotiations. 
Mr. Obama singled out fast-growing emerging economies that are responsible for a growing share of emissions. He said he spoke Tuesday with China's vice premier, Zhang 
Gaoli, about the shared commitment of the two nations to embrace cuts. 

Mr. Zhang said in a brief speech that China would "make an even greater effort to address climate change and take on international responsibilities that are commensurate with 

our national conditions." 
"What you saw today in a one-two punch was a recognition from the world's two biggest polluters that they understand the risks," said Jennifer Morgan, director of climate and 
energy at the World Resources Institute, an environmental think tank. 

Senior American and Chinese officials recently discussed climate-change efforts in a series of high-level meetings in Beijing. 

"China is not in denial," U.N. Under Secretary-General Achim Steiner said in an interview, adding that half of China's new electricity-generation equipment last year was 
renewable. 
The new U.S. measures are modest: employing American technology to help poor people around the world prepare for natural disasters, and an executive order requiring 

federal agencies to factor in resilience to climate change in U.S. international programs and investments. 

Still, the Obama administration has made strides on curbing emissions, including tougher rules for coal-fired power plants and the nation's automotive fleet. Meanwhile, U.S. 
energy production from wind has tripled, while solar-energy output has grown tenfold since Mr. Obama took office, according to a White House official. 
The administration has seen some defeats, too. An earlier plan for cutting emissions, known as cap and trade, died in the Senate in 2010 amid Republican opposition and 

divisions within the Democratic majority. 
Despite concerns in Congress, the White House has some leverage in pushing other countries to sign on to deep emissions cuts, while also imposing tougher rules in the U.S. 
The Environmental Protection Agency, for instance, earlier this year proposed caps on carbon emissions by U.S. utilities, a less-comprehensive plan than the 2010 proposal. 
The speeches, and private discussions behind the scenes, by Mr. Obama and world leaders Tuesday are meant to set the stage for formal negotiations on climate change starting 

later this year in Lima, Peru. 

Stung by previous attempts to impose world-wide regulations on carbon emissions, leaders are now pursuing a more modest accord that likely would push nations to make significant cuts or face censure from an international body. Credit: By William Mauldin and Jeffrey Sparshott 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Climate change;  
Global warming;  
Environmental protection;  
Emissions control  
Location  United States--US; China  
People  Obama, Barack  
Classification  1540: Pollution control  
9190: United States  
Title  U.S. News: Obama Promises a Push to Cut Emissions --- Despite Opposition From Lawmakers  
at Home, President Tells U.N. Climate Summit That U.S., China Need to Lead Way  
Author  Mauldin, William; Sparshott, Jeffrey  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.4  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Sep 24, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1564326303  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1564326303?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 283 of 376 


Fossil Fuels Stir Debate at Endowments --- University of California System Weighs Investments in Coal, Oil and Gas Firms 
Fitzpatrick, Dan.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]10 Sep 2014: C.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Fossil+Fuels+Stir+Debate+at+Endowments+--­+University+of+California+System+Weighs+Investments+in+Coal%2C+Oil+and+Gas+Firms&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2014-09­10&volume=&issue=&spage=C.1&au=Fitzpatrick%2C+Dan&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Divestment is "really tricky" for university officers who are under pressure to deliver returns, said Charles Skorina, a San Francisco recruiter for university endowments who is the managing partner of Charles A. Skorina & Co. "Are you going to save the world or screw students that depend on endowment earnings to fund scholarships?" Most big schools are thus far refraining from dumping companies tied to fossil fuels as they weigh pressures to boost returns. 

Full Text 
A nationwide showdown between activists and universities over investments in coal, oil and gas intensified Tuesday after a University of California task force abruptly pulled back a draft recommendation not to sell its fossil-fuel holdings. 
The group -- charged with advising the university's investment committee -- had planned to suggest that the state system join Harvard University, Yale University and Brown University in holding fast against activist calls to dump their fossil-fuel investments, said people familiar with the discussions. 
But in an hourlong meeting Tuesday, several task-force members successfully argued for preserving the option of divestment. The task force subsequently removed from its recommendation to an investment committee language stating that selling those investments "would not meaningfully impact climate change," these people added. 
A system spokeswoman said the university isn't currently considering a complete fossil-fuel divestment but may decide to sell some assets as it sets new investment guidelines. 
The deliberations at the 10-campus, 238,000-student system highlight the dilemma posed by calls for university-supported funds to play a role in world affairs. In past decades, large universities pulled away from investments in South Africa, the Sudan and tobacco companies amid pressure to do so. 
The issue has generated controversy by pitting university endowments' need to generate cash to pay for scholarships and facilities against activists' calls to have investment decisions reflect certain social concerns. Roughly $22 billion in university funds are invested in energy and natural-resources companies, according to the National Association of College and University Business Officers. That represents roughly 5% of all university assets. 
Divestment is "really tricky" for university officers who are under pressure to deliver returns, said Charles Skorina, a San Francisco recruiter for university endowments who is the managing partner of Charles A. Skorina & Co. "Are you going to save the world or screw students that depend on endowment earnings to fund scholarships?" 
Most big schools are thus far refraining from dumping companies tied to fossil fuels as they weigh pressures to boost returns. "Significantly constraining investment options risks significantly constraining investment returns," said Harvard President Drew Faust last October when the Boston school decided against selling fossil-fuel investments in its $33 billion endowment, which is the largest university endowment in the world. 
A handful of other schools, including Stanford University, have agreed to make at least some divestitures due to concerns that fossil-fuel companies contribute to global warming. Stanford said in May it wouldn't invest in coal-mining companies. 
Some large universities are introducing compromises in place of a total divestment. Yale will ask investment managers to account for "the effects of climate change on the businesses in which they are or might be investing," according to a statement last week from Yale President Peter Salovey. 
The California task force is recommending a $1 billion commitment from the system over five years for investments geared toward cleaner fuel, power, agriculture and energy efforts and to establish guidelines for how its investment office should pursue environmentally friendly holdings, according to a document posted online Tuesday by Chief Investment Officer Jagdeep Singh Bachher. The task force also is recommending the university system support a set of responsible investment principles developed by the United Nations. 
The university's Committee on Investments is expected to discuss the task force's recommendations Friday, and the board of regents could vote on the measure as early as next week. 
The commitments would cover an investment portfolio of $91 billion, which includes an $8 billion endowment and a $52 billion pension plan. 
But, following Tuesday's meeting, the task force removed earlier language stating that a majority of task-force members "believe that the cumulative benefit from the university's divestment from fossil fuels would not outweigh the total costs incurred from the divestment of fossil fuels." 
One task-force member, University of California, Berkeley, senior Victoria Fernandez, said she and another student representative were surprised on Sept. 2 when they were informed about the draft recommendation not to divest. Their concerns about the new language, she said, led to Tuesday's meeting. 
"It is a victory" that the task force "changed their initial rejection," she said, but the process "was discouraging." 
The University of California system set up the task force in June after a student campaign called "Fossil Free UC" pressed the school to drop all companies that contribute to global warming. 
The effort received help from 350.org, an advocacy group founded by author and environmentalist Bill McKibben that is pushing for fossil-fuel pullbacks across the U.S. Thus far, 12 universities have agreed to divest, include the University of Dayton's $670 million investment pool and the $51 million endowment maintained by San Francisco State University. 
"So far, the Ivies aren't divesting, but they will eventually," Mr. McKibben said via email, referring to Ivy League schools. 
Persuading universities to untangle their investments from South Africa during the period of apartheid took seven or eight years, he added. "This is moving faster, and the 'Nos' from boards of trustees give students, faculty and alumni the chance to ramp up the pressure, which I think you'll will see more of as the year goes on." 
More universities are asking consultants to gauge the impact of selling their fossil-fuel holdings, said Chris Adkerson, a principal at Mercer who works with university endowments and foundations. 
"That being said, while we may see continued divestment from coal assets, we don't expect significant divestment from fossil fuels," he said. 
Credit: By Dan Fitzpatrick 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Colleges & universities; 
Task forces; 
Social investing; 
Endowment; 
Fossil fuels; 
Divestiture 


Location 	California 
Company / organization 	Name: Stanford University 

NAICS: 611310; 

Name: Harvard University NAICS: 611310; 
Name: University of California System NAICS: 611310 
Classification 	9190: United States 

8306: Schools and educational services 

3400: Investment analysis & personal finance 


Title 	Fossil Fuels Stir Debate at Endowments --- University of California System Weighs Investments 
in Coal, Oil and Gas Firms 

Author 	Fitzpatrick, Dan 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	C.1 
Publication year 	2014 
Publication date 	Sep 10, 2014 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 	00999660 
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1561001153  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1561001153?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 284 of 376 


Boss Talk: Peabody CEO to Critics: Don't Write Off Coal 
Miller, John W.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]10 Sep 2014: B.5. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Boss+Talk%3A+Peabody+CEO+to+Critics%3A+Don%27t+Write+Off 09-10&volume=&issue=&spage=B.5&au=Miller%2C+John+W&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Peabody meanwhile faces competition for electricity generation from natural gas, proposed environmental regulations aimed at slashing carbon emissions and a public perception that coal is a dirty and dusty relic. [The Environmental Protection Agency said there was no war on any fossil fuel. 

Full Text 
As chief executive of the U.S.'s largest coal company by output, Peabody Energy Corp., Greg Boyce carries the flag for an embattled industry. 
Peabody, which operates mines in eight U.S. states and Australia, recorded $1.1 billion in losses over the last two years, mainly because of price swings, and is poised to be in 

the red again this year. It also is loaded with debt: $6 billion -- twice the level of 2010. Much of that stems from the $5 billion acquisition in 2011 of an Australian coal company, 
purchased to give the St. Louis company greater access to growing Asian markets for coal used to make steel. 
Mr. Boyce's strategy has been to cut costs and hope for a recovery in what typically are cyclical coal prices. 
Analysts agree that the coal market is likely to recover eventually, "but it's been down a while," said Bob Hodge of IHS Energy. 
Peabody meanwhile faces competition for electricity generation from natural gas, proposed environmental regulations aimed at slashing carbon emissions and a public 

perception that coal is a dirty and dusty relic. 

The 59-year-old Mr. Boyce, who has been CEO since 2006, said in a recent interview that people shouldn't write off an industry that supplies more than 40% of the nation's 
electricity at a cost that helps reduce "energy poverty." Edited excerpts: 
WSJ: Can you improve the image of coal? 
Mr. Boyce: Explain to everyone how much electricity today depends on coal. I mentioned to folks here in the U.S. that we still get 42% of our electricity on coal. And they say, 

"Wait a minute. I thought we stopped using coal." 
WSJ: What do you say to people who say coal is dirty? 
Mr. Boyce: Since 1970, coal use has increased almost 200%, yet the emissions from coal have been reduced by almost 90%. Technology has reduced what used to be the 

standard emissions for coal -- sulfur dioxide, nitrous oxide, mercury and particulates -- so the next wave of technology is what do we do to try to decarbonize and try to reduce the CO2 from coal. 
WSJ: In 20 or 30 years, will natural gas replace coal in the U.S.? 
Mr. Boyce: If you assume, as we do, that you need all forms of energy, then there's a role for each form of energy. In the case of coal and nuclear, it's electricity generation. 
That's the lowest-cost form of electrical generation. In the case of natural gas, it's things like home heating and home cooking. 

WSJ: Will Peabody get into the gas business? 

Mr. Boyce: The gas business has a lot of folks in it right now. We've always looked at our skill set. That's coal, mining, marketing and sales. As long as we can keep growing, 
we'll keep doing that. 
WSJ: But what if Americans are willing to pay more for clean energy? 
Mr. Boyce: We have 115 million U.S. citizens that qualify for some kind of low-income energy assistance. We already have a third of the population that can't afford their utility 

bills. If there are people who want to use boutique and high-priced energy and can afford it, that's great. But many people can't even afford what we already have. 
WSJ: Does the Obama administration really have a "war on coal," as many in the coal industry allege? 
Mr. Boyce: They just don't like fossil fuels. But there are no replacements for fossil fuels at scale, at affordability. 
[The Environmental Protection Agency said there was no war on any fossil fuel. "We see coal continuing to be a third of our energy mix after these rules are implemented," a 

spokeswoman said.] 
WSJ: The EPA has proposed rules to curb climate change by drastically cutting power-plant CO2 emissions. How will that affect you? 
Mr. Boyce: It's too early to tell. All I know is just about everybody doesn't like them. Many states have already passed some kind of resolution or law saying, "Hey these aren't 

going to work for us." About 80% of U.S. businesses are saying this doesn't make sense. The devastation in terms of electricity rates will not be tolerable. 
WSJ: What about your debt level? 

Mr. Boyce: We've got debt that is higher than we'd normally like to have. It's typical of a postacquisition gearing level that we would work down over a number of years. So our focus right now is a combination of continuing to be very disciplined on capital and continuing to increase our margins through cost control. 
WSJ: So how are you bringing down costs? 
Mr. Boyce: In Australia, we converted from contractors to running things ourselves. We said this operation deserves a 400-ton truck rather than a 200-ton truck. We have our own employees on the truck and larger-loading equipment, so what used to take 20 trucks now only takes 10. 
WSJ: Does Peabody want to sell American coal in Asia? 
Mr. Boyce: I do see exports, either from the Illinois basin or [Wyoming's] Powder River Basin to Europe and Asia. If the Pacific market grows the way we think it's going to go, it's going to pull coal out of the Atlantic market. 
WSJ: Could a new port facility be built on the West Coast, which environmentalists have blocked, allowing coal to be exported? 
Mr. Boyce: I think there will be a terminal built. It will be a slow process. The concept that not building a terminal on the West Coast is going to stop coal from being used somewhere in the world has no sense of reality. And energy poverty is the largest issue in the world. The biggest environmental issues we have today are resulting from energy poverty. 
Credit: By John W. Miller 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Natural gas; 
Energy policy; 
Coal industry; 

Fossil fuels 


Location 	United States--US; Australia 
People 	Boyce, Gregory H 
Company / organization 	Name: Peabody Energy Corp 

NAICS: 212112 


Classification 	9190: United States 

8510: Petroleum industry 


Title 	Boss Talk: Peabody CEO to Critics: Don't Write Off Coal 
Author 	Miller, John W 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	B.5 
Publication year 	2014 
Publication date 	Sep 10, 2014 
column 	Managing 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 	00999660 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Interview  
ProQuest document ID  1560954527  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1560954527?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 285 of 376 


The Climate Change Agenda Needs to Adapt to Reality 
Lazear, Edward P.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]03 Sep 2014: A.13. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=The+Climate+Change+Agenda+Needs+to+Adapt+to+Reality&title=W 09-03&volume=&issue=&spage=A.13&au=Lazear%2C+Edward+P&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
According to the Paris-based International Energy Agency, in 2012 the world emitted a little over 31 gigatons of carbon dioxide. [...]they aren't responsible for previous emissions, and on a per capita basis U.S. emissions are much higher. 

Full Text 
The Obama administration is instituting a variety of far-reaching policies to reduce carbon emissions and mitigate climate change. Are any of these capable of making a difference? Simple arithmetic suggests not. Given this reality, we would be wise to consider strategies that complement and may be more effective than mitigation -- namely, adaptation. 
According to the Paris-based International Energy Agency, in 2012 the world emitted a little over 31 gigatons of carbon dioxide. China was the No. 1 emitter, accounting for more than one-fourth of the carbon produced. The U.S. was second, emitting about one-sixth. 
China and India, among other developing countries, argue that they should be allowed to increase carbon emissions. They're still developing and require higher rates of economic growth. Moreover, they aren't responsible for previous emissions, and on a per capita basis U.S. emissions are much higher. 
These arguments have merit but must be measured against the reality of carbon growth. Consider China: Its carbon emissions increased by an average 8.6% a year between 2002 and 2012. Were China to continue at this pace for 27 years until it reaches today's U.S. GDP per capita, it would emit 99 gigatons of carbon in 2041 alone, or three times the world's current emissions. 
This scenario is too pessimistic. As countries develop, they become more efficient in energy use. But even if China tapered its emissions growth from 8.6% to zero over the same 27 years, it would still emit as much carbon in 2041 as the entire world does today. And that's not including emissions growth from India, Africa and South America. 
Is there any hope of limiting carbon emissions to 30-50 gigatons in 2030, as many climatologists have called for, with substantial reductions thereafter? Some countries, notably Denmark and Sweden, have significantly reduced emissions. Can the U.S. do the same? 
Feel-good actions won't make a dent. For example, it is fashionable to favor locally grown produce in part to reduce the carbon from transport. But transport from producer to retailer is a trivial part -- less than 5% -- of energy used in the life cycle of produce. Almost all of the emitted carbon is associated with production, which means that growing a tomato bound for Chicago in an Illinois winter hothouse rather than outdoors in Florida is not a carbon-saving strategy. 
How about using public transportation, driving carbon-friendly vehicles, living closer to work, or biking instead of driving? Suppose that the U.S. completely eliminated carbon emissions from transportation over the next four years. The IEA data show that world emissions would still rise because the reduction from the U.S. would not cover the increase in carbon emitted by the rest of the world. Without world-wide changes, there is limited gain, even from dramatic action by the world's second-largest emitter. 
The economics also work against a major transformation in the technology of producing power, either mobile or stationary. Coal is cheap. Natural gas is becoming even cheaper, but its carbon emissions, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, are still half those of coal and three-quarters those of gasoline per unit of energy produced. Although a switch to natural gas for many power uses would help, and accounts for recent drops in U.S. emissions, it cannot change the carbon arithmetic enough to prevent the world from exceeding "safe" levels. 
Unless an economical low-carbon source of power generation becomes available, it is unrealistic to expect that countries, especially developing ones, will accede to any demand to produce power in a higher-cost manner merely to emit less carbon. 
Very high carbon taxes or severely restrictive cap-and-trade policies might provide substantial motivation to conserve. These could reduce carbon-intensive consumption and motivate a switch to lower carbon power sources like nuclear. But these actions are undesirable because of their adverse effects on the economy. Australia instituted a $22 per ton carbon-dioxide tax in 2012. It repealed the highly unpopular measure this July, mainly because of its economic costs and perceived ineffectiveness. Research and development are worthwhile. But they can be wasteful and ineffective -- recall Solyndra -- and if R&D is to be government sponsored, all developed countries should participate in funding. 
Given these limitations on mitigating carbon emissions, it is important to study how to adapt to climate change. There are myriad possibilities for adaptation, including the obvious, like building dikes in low-lying areas, and planting heat-tolerant crops and trees in cities. Some adaptation will occur naturally. For example, economic incentives will induce people who are setting up new households, businesses and farms to move to areas that are less severely harmed by warming temperatures. 
Organizations like the U.N.-sponsored Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change have pushed adaptation as a complementary strategy to mitigation. Still, adaptation has received little attention by the Obama administration and is hardly mentioned in public discussion. Proponents of strong anti-carbon measures seem to believe that even considering an alternative to mitigation will weaken the public's willingness to bear the costs of mitigation. 
Carbon math makes clear that without major effort and a good bit of luck, we are unlikely to control the growth of emissions enough to meet the standards that many climate scientists suggest are necessary. It is time to end the delusions and start thinking realistically about what can and will be done. 
Mr. Lazear, chairman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers (2006-09) and head of the White House committee on the economics of climate change (2007-08), is a professor at Stanford University's Graduate School of Business and a Hoover Institution fellow. 
Credit: By Edward P. Lazear 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Adaptation;  
Carbon offsets;  
Climate change  
Location  United States--US; China; India  
Classification  9190: United States  
9179: Asia & the Pacific  
1510: Energy resources  
Title  The Climate Change Agenda Needs to Adapt to Reality  
Author  Lazear, Edward P  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.13  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Sep 3, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1558950280  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1558950280?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-22  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 286 of 376 


Power Switch: Germany's Expensive Energy Gamble 
Karnitschnig, Matthew.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]27 Aug 2014: A.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Power+Switch%3A+Germany%27s+Expensive+Energy+Gamble&title=W 08-27&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Karnitschnig%2C+Matthew&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
"Germany's current path of increasingly high-cost energy will make the country less competitive in the world economy, penalize Germany in terms of jobs and industrial investment, and impose a significant cost on the overall economy and household income," warned Daniel Yergin, vice chairman of research firm IHS. 

Full text 
WILSTER, Germany -- In a sandy marsh on the outskirts of this medieval hamlet, Germany's next autobahn will soon take shape. 
The Stromautobahn, as locals call it, won't carry Audis and BMW's, but high-voltage electricity over hundreds of miles of aluminum and steel cables stretching from the North Sea to Germany's industrial corridor in the south. 
The project is the linchpin of Germany's Energiewende, or energy revolution, a mammoth, trillion-euro plan to wean the country off nuclear and fossil fuels by midcentury and the top domestic priority of Chancellor Angela Merkel. 
But many companies, economists and even Germany's neighbors worry that the enormous cost to replace a currently working system will undermine the country's industrial base and weigh on the entire European economy. Germany's second-quarter GDP decline of 0.6%, reported earlier this month, put a damper on overall euro-zone growth, leaving it flat for the quarter. 
Average electricity prices for companies have jumped 60% over the past five years because of costs passed along as part of government subsidies of renewable energy producers. Prices are now more than double those in the U.S. 
"German industry is going to gradually lose its competitiveness if this course isn't reversed soon," said Kurt Bock, chief executive of BASF SE, the world's largest chemical maker. 
The European Union has set a series of binding renewable energy targets for all of its members. The goals, in which about 35% of Europe's electricity is projected to come from renewable sources by 2020, are considered ambitious by international standards. But Germany's "lonely revolution," as some call it, goes much further. By 2025, Germany aims to produce 40%-45% of its electricity from renewable sources, rising to at least 80% by 2050. Most countries in the EU are holding to the lower target for now and are continuing to use nuclear energy. 
Ms. Merkel, who ordered Germany's accelerated exit from nuclear power after the Fukushima disaster in 2011, has declared the Energiewende both a major contribution in the battle against global warming and a historic step toward ending the world's reliance on nuclear power. 
"No country of Germany's scale has pursued such a radical shift in its energy supply," Ms. Merkel said in a speech earlier this year. 
One government estimate projects the Energiewende by 2040 to cost up to 1 trillion euros, or about $1.4 trillion, or almost half Germany's GDP and nearly as much as the country spent on the reunification of East and West Germany. 
Despite the weak second quarter, Germany's economy -- Europe's largest -- is still benefiting from strong demand for German machinery and autos in China and elsewhere, which helped Germany weather the Continent's debt crisis with little damage. This year, the economy is expected to expand by about 1.5%, solid growth by European standards. 
Yet nearly 75% of Germany's small- and medium-size industrial businesses say rising energy costs are a major risk, according to a recent survey by PricewaterhouseCoopers and the Federation of German Industry. 
A similar percentage of the U.S. companies operating in Germany said the Energiewende had made the country a less attractive place for business, according to a separate poll by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. And for the first time since 2008, German companies cited rising overall costs at home as a motivation to invest abroad in a recent survey by the German Chambers of Commerce and Industry. 
"Germany's current path of increasingly high-cost energy will make the country less competitive in the world economy, penalize Germany in terms of jobs and industrial investment, and impose a significant cost on the overall economy and household income," warned Daniel Yergin, vice chairman of research firm IHS. 
The German government says it is committed to limiting the negative impact on the broader economy. Once Germany's renewable infrastructure is complete, electricity prices should fall, the government has said. 
The government also argues that by establishing German industry as the leader in green technology, the Energiewende will give German business another lucrative export. Ms. Merkel has pointed to eventual technological advances in solar and wind power generation, grid management systems and power storage technologies. 
BASF, which consumes as much electricity every year at its main German plant as the entire country of Denmark, said in May it would substantially reduce its investments in Germany as a result of the country's energy policy. It said its plan for the next five years is to cut investment in Germany to one-fourth the 20 billion euro global total investment, from one-third currently, and that it would invest in Asia and the U.S. instead. BASF has more than 50,000 employees in Germany, about half the company's total workforce. 
SGL Carbon, a maker of carbon-based products, in May decided to invest an additional $200 million to its plant in Washington state on top of $100 million previously invested instead of investing in its home base of Germany. The company, which makes carbon fibers used to lighten the body of BMW's new electric car at the Washington facility, said electricity at the site costs less than one-third German rates. 
Basi Schoberl GmbH, an industrial gases company based in southwestern Germany, shelved plans this year to expand production at home. Instead, it will invest more than 10 million euros to build out its French base near Strasbourg. An investment in Germany was too risky due to uncertainty over government policy and the effect the Energiewende will have on energy prices, said Chief Executive Ingo Nawrath. "We're standing with our backs up against the wall," he said. 
So far, the main beneficiaries of the Energiewende are investors in wind and solar installations. Private individuals and local community groups control about half of Germany's onshore wind and solar energy markets. Institutional investors, including many insurance companies, own roughly half of the country's solar energy and 40% of its onshore wind power generation. Germany has few hydropower resources. 
Rewiring the world's fourth-largest economy hasn't been easy. The undertaking, the biggest infrastructure project in Germany since World War II, has been plagued by cost overruns, regulatory disputes and questions of conservation. One issue: how to keep bats and endangered birds from flying into the rotors of thousands of wind turbines going up across the country. 
A more immediate concern is the soaring cost of energy. 
To encourage the expansion of green power production, the government guaranteed prices for electricity fed into the grid from renewable sources, such as wind turbines or solar panels. The price guarantees, which vary depending on when the system was installed and its generating capacity, are binding for 20 years. 
The government passes the subsidy cost on to consumers in a surcharge. While the flood of new energy sources has lowered market prices for electricity, consumer prices have actually increased as the surcharge has risen to make up the difference between the market and government-guaranteed prices. On the spot market, a kilowatt-hour of electricity costs 3.2 cents, half what it did in 2011. The average guaranteed price under the government's price fixing regime is 17 cents. The renewable energy surcharge levied on German households and businesses has nearly tripled since 2010 and now accounts for about 18% of a German household's electric bill. All told, the subsidies amount to about 24 billion euros a year, according to Germany's economics ministry. 
Alarmed by the rising costs, Ms. Merkel's government revised the law authorizing the green energy subsidies in June. With a combination of caps on the number of new solar and wind installations eligible for the subsidy and other measures, it hopes to forestall further surcharge increases. 
About 2,000 of Germany's heavy industrial users -- including BASF and SGL -- are largely exempt from paying the surcharge until at least 2017, when the EU wants to scrutinize whether the exemption is an unfair trade support, among other issues. 
Berlin has vowed to fight any attempt by the EU to fundamentally change the subsidy program. 
The companies, which save about 5 billion euros annually because of the surcharge exemption, say the questions surrounding the program make it impossible to plan and say the higher energy costs are passed on to them from smaller suppliers and contractors who aren't exempted. 
Nonexempt companies also complain of the disparity. "Whereas some sectors are exempt from the renewable-energy surcharge, high-tech companies have to bear an additional burden," Infineon Technologies AG Chief Executive Reinhard Ploss complained to investors earlier this year. Mr. Ploss said his company, Germany's largest chip maker, would pay 25 million euros less in Austria for the power it uses in Germany this year. 
The incentives, introduced in 2000, have worked to increase renewable-energy production. Wind turbines now dot the horizon in almost every corner of the country. 
Overall, distributing the power has proved more complicated than producing it. Electricity generated from wind in Germany's gusty northern reaches must be moved to the country's energy hungry industry in the south. 
Germany doesn't have a single north-south power transmission corridor. The country's grid evolved over decades around local power plants that served their communities so there was no need to send power across long distances. 
The government wants to build and modernize more than 4,000 miles of high-voltage power lines, both offshore and through densely populated areas. So far, amid delays and indecision, only 220 miles of the expansion have been completed, meaning power can't get to users. 
Gunther Oettinger, Europe's top energy official, compares Germany's strategy to building a train station before the tracks have been laid. Germany has built "wind park after wind park after wind park" instead of focusing on how it will transmit the electricity to where it is needed, he said. 
Winning over local communities along the main grid corridors is the biggest hurdle toward construction. 
The Wilster Marsh is the on-ramp for the Stromautobahn, which translates as "electricity highway," and would be a 500-mile-long north-south corridor. The region, a windswept landscape of dairy farms about 45 miles north of Hamburg on the Elbe River, is where the power from more than 1,000 off- and onshore wind farms will flow through a converter station and be shipped south. 
Though most locals here support the Energiewende, few want to see 230-foot transmission towers in their neighborhood. 
"Some people who were for this are now on their back foot saying, 'but not in my backyard,' " said Matthias Block, the chief of Wilster's department of building. 
Polls show strong support in Germany for the Energiewende. Germans' embrace of renewable energy is rooted in their visceral opposition to nuclear power. The movement has been gathering strength since the 1960s, and popular and political opposition was intensified after a violent confrontation between police and 100,000 demonstrators against a new nuclear power plant in 1981 in the Wilster Marsh. 
With Germany's nine remaining nuclear power plants set to be closed by 2022, a substantial delay in building the transmission corridor could force the country to revert to conventional energy sources. 
The nuclear exit has already triggered an increase in Germany's greenhouse gas emissions over the past two years, because utilities have turned to cheap coal to replace the power capacity lost from the eight nuclear plants that have already been switched off. 
The government says the trend is temporary and that emissions will drop once more wind and solar farms go into operation. 
Skeptics, meanwhile, say the program's overall environmental impact will be limited if other big countries don't follow suit. Germany accounts for just over 2% of global greenhouse gas emissions. 
In June the EU admonished Berlin to "keep the overall costs of transforming the energy system to a minimum" and said Germany needed to do more to coordinate its energy policy with neighboring countries, which worry about the stability of their own infrastructure. 
"Initially, there was this enthusiasm that Germany would be at the head of the parade," said IHS's Mr. Yergin, who has chronicled the global energy sector for decades. "But now the Germans look back and see there aren't that many people behind them." 
Credit: By Matthew Karnitschnig 


(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Renewable resources; Costs; Gross Domestic Product--GDP; Eurozone; Energy policy; Electricity distribution; Economic conditions -- Germany  
Location  United States--US; Germany  
People  Merkel, Angela  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  BASF SE 551112, 325320, 325412, 325620, 325998;  
Name: NAICS:  European Union 926110, 928120  
Classification  1110: Economic conditions & forecasts 1510: Energy resources 1520: Energy policy 9175: Western Europe  
Title  Power Switch: Germany's Expensive Energy Gamble  
Author  Karnitschnig, Matthew  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.1  
Publication year  2014  

Publication date  Aug 27, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1556181873  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1556181873?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 287 of 376 


Obama's Second-Term Energy Policy Is Working 
Deutch, John.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]19 Aug 2014: A.15. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Obama%27s+Second­Term+Energy+Policy+Is+Working&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2014-08­19&volume=&issue=&spage=A.15&au=Deutch%2C+John&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
In June the Environmental Protection Agency released an unexpectedly thoughtful and well-supported plan setting specific goals for reducing emissions chosen from a menu of measures such as increased efficiency, emissions trading and fuel switching, mainly from coal to natural gas for electricity generation. While recognizing the tremendous benefits from lower oil and gas prices, more jobs and reduced imports, the administration has been slow to advance specific proposals for allowing the export of crude oil and has approved eight permits for the export of liquefied natural gas (LNG). 

Full Text 
President Obama has put energy and the environment at the top of his second-term agenda. The focus has been on climate change, and on exploiting the unexpected plenty of North American oil, gas and energy technology. The administration's progress has been notable -- especially in comparison with health care, immigration and foreign affairs. 
The president's highest priority is to reduce the carbon-dioxide emissions of existing electricity generating power plants. In June the Environmental Protection Agency released an unexpectedly thoughtful and well-supported plan setting specific goals for reducing emissions chosen from a menu of measures such as increased efficiency, emissions trading and fuel switching, mainly from coal to natural gas for electricity generation. The projected CO2 reductions -- about 30% below 2005 levels by 2030 -- are reasonable and shouldn't significantly increase industry or consumer costs. 
Ironically, the EPA's regulations for existing power plants are more realistic than those it has issued for new coal and natural gas plants. The agency has justified its rules for new plants by asserting that carbon sequestration -- the capture and storage of CO2 in underground reservoirs -- is an "adequately demonstrated control technology." It certainly isn't, and it's also too expensive. But it likely doesn't matter since no one is planning a new coal-fired electricity generating plant in the U.S. in the foreseeable future. 
The president's strategy to reduce CO2 emissions through regulation thus appears to be succeeding, though the EPA may suffer a backlash. The public expects the agency to be a fair and capable administrator of a policy endorsed by a majority of Congress, rather than the promoter of a presidential policy, no matter how meritorious, that doesn't command widespread public support. 
The EPA regulations will strengthen the U.S. position in international climate negotiations that seek to reduce global greenhouse-gas emissions. However, few believe that mitigation of global emissions will be sufficient to avoid disruptive climate change. 
Instead, the U.S. needs a strategy for adaptation to climate change. The president's climate action plan announced in June 2013 takes a step in this direction. It points to improving the resiliency of U.S. infrastructure in the face of extreme weather events, a goal that resonates with the public. But while climate science links climate change and extreme weather, no such link has been established between large hurricanes, like 2005's Hurricane Katrina, and global warming. How the world adapts to the economic disruption and possible conflict that will accompany climate change is of growing consequence. 
The administration also has been hesitant to grasp the opportunities presented by the North American oil and gas revolution. While recognizing the tremendous benefits from lower oil and gas prices, more jobs and reduced imports, the administration has been slow to advance specific proposals for allowing the export of crude oil and has approved eight permits for the export of liquefied natural gas (LNG). 
The fear is that exports will cause domestic oil and gas prices to rise. As a close observer of natural gas production -- and a director of Cheniere Energy Inc., the only company granted a license with a plant to export LNG under construction -- I find this fear misplaced. It is fanciful to expect LNG exports will drive the domestic price of natural gas up because North American natural gas reserves are enormous and it's unlikely that more than a dozen or so U.S. export facilities will be approved. 
Mr. Obama is likely to continue delaying a decision on approving the Keystone XL pipeline. But this should not stop the administration from proposing measures to modernize oil and gas distribution. Pipelines are generally safer and less expensive than railcars for moving oil products to market. 
The greatest risk is that public concern about the environmental risks will lead to bans on hydraulic fracturing. The major effects are on water and air quality, community disruption and induced seismic activity. Incredibly, the EPA won't begin adopting regulatory guidelines for water management until 2015. There are also serious tensions between the EPA and state regulators, who know local geological and operating practices. Given the stakes, companies should commit now to reducing the environmental impact of their operations. 
Mr. Obama's support for new energy technology, begun under Energy Secretary Steven Chu, is continuing under Ernie Moniz. The administration's often-mentioned "all of the above energy strategy" implies that it will pursue all energy options equally. 
While this makes sense as a declaration of intent, priorities need to be set. The first priority should be substantial support for basic R&D, because private industry lacks the commercial justification to undertake studies that may have long-term benefits they cannot capture. Some technologies deserve government support -- such as carbon sequestration, which is essential for clean coal. Others don't deserve support because they are too expensive -- e.g., nuclear power -- or because markets and technical progress have already made them commercially viable, such as grid-connected solar photovoltaics. 
President Obama is having greater success in advancing his energy agenda in his second term than in his first. But it will take more than one successful term to secure the country's energy future. To coin a phrase for the next president: One good term deserves another. 
Mr. Deutch is a professor of chemistry at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a former director of energy research and undersecretary at the U.S. Department of Energy. He is a director of Cheniere Energy Inc., a Houston-based liquefied natural gas company. 
Credit: By John Deutch 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Climate change;  
Natural gas;  
Power plants;  
Environmental protection;  
Emissions control;  
Energy policy  
Location  United States--US  
People  Obama, Barack  
Company / organization  Name: Congress  
NAICS: 921120;  
Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS: 924110  
Title  Obama's Second-Term Energy Policy Is Working  
Author  Deutch, John  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.15  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Aug 19, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1554024322  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1554024322?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  

Database US Newsstream 
document 288 of 376 


Pushing Back Against Obama's War on Coal 
Kelly, Mike.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]04 Aug 2014: A.13. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Pushing+Back+Against+Obama%27s+War+on+Coal&title=Wall+Street 08-04&volume=&issue=&spage=A.13&au=Kelly%2C+Mike&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
According to the Heritage Foundation, the result of the EPA's proposed rule "will be fewer jobs and less income for American families." According to the National Mining Association, a coal plant built today emits 90% fewer emissions than a plant built in the 1970s. 

Full Text 
A dozen states filed suit on Friday to stop the Environmental Protection Agency from enacting its "Clean Power Plan," new rules that will put many coal-fired power plants out of business. The filing came the same week the EPA held nation-wide public hearings about the plan -- including in Pittsburgh, where thousands of coal workers turned out to register their unhappiness with the Obama administration's intentions. 
Coal workers are upset because the White House-ordered regulatory scheme will badly damage the coal industry and cost Americans in higher electricity costs and lost jobs while doing little to fight climate change. It was good to see coal finally get a public hearing. The bad news is that President Obama and the EPA have already issued their guilty verdict and handed down the sentence. 
Coal generates 40% of America's electricity -- more than any other energy source. Its stable price and abundance insulates the U.S. economy from spikes in energy demand. Yet the EPA is proposing to destroy coal's benefits by imposing onerous emissions standards on all existing power plants, under the threat of crippling fines, which is certain to lead to plant closures. 
The EPA's war on coal has troubling economic implications for every American and U.S. business. As the new regulations take effect, Americans could see their electric bills increase annually by more than 10% -- $150 for the average consumer -- by the end of the decade, according to the American Action Forum. 
By keeping energy rates reliably low, coal helps give U.S. manufacturing its global edge against foreign competitors. On June 2 the National Association of Manufacturers warned that the EPA rule "could single-handedly eliminate this competitive advantage by removing reliable and abundant sources of energy from our nation's energy mix." 
Coal also provides, directly and indirectly, hundreds of thousands of jobs across the country. In my state of Pennsylvania, more than 40,000 jobs are tied to coal production, including thousands of manufacturing jobs in factories powered by coal. Federal regulations have already forced two plants in my district to close over the past two years. The National Mining Association estimates that more than 300 plants will retire nationwide due to EPA rules over the next six years. When mines and plants shut down, manufacturing costs rise and employment plummets. 
According to the Heritage Foundation, the result of the EPA's proposed rule "will be fewer jobs and less income for American families." A study by the foundation released in June predicts that the EPA's anti-coal crusade could terminate 600,000 American jobs by 2023 while dampening economic growth by more than $2 trillion. 
What is the point of all this pain? China and India, not the United States, are the biggest emitters of carbon dioxide from coal. China alone has increased coal production by more than 24% since 2005, according to the Energy Information Administration, while the U.S. power sector's carbon emissions have declined by 15%. According to the National Mining Association, a coal plant built today emits 90% fewer emissions than a plant built in the 1970s. That's not clean enough for the EPA. 
The New Republic puts it this way: "The goal of these regulations is not to stop global warming, but to prove to the international community that the U.S. is ready to pay additional costs to combat climate change." In other words, the Obama administration expects the American people to sacrifice for the sake of mere symbolism. 
I recently introduced the Coal Country Protection Act (H.R. 4808) in the House of Representatives, a companion Minority Leader Mitch McConnell's legislation in the Senate. This bipartisan bill -- co-sponsored by West Virginia Democrat Nick Rahall, among others -- would halt new EPA regulation on power plants until there is a guarantee that there will be no loss of American jobs, no drop in gross domestic product, no higher electricity rates and no interruption in energy delivery. 
In January 2008 as a presidential candidate, Mr. Obama promised that "electricity rates would necessarily sky-rocket" under his policies and boasted that "if somebody wants to build a coal plant, they can -- it's just that [it] will bankrupt them." He has shown as president that he intends to make good on that promise by eradicating coal from American life. 
He used his first-year political capital to try to pass a cap-and-trade plan, but that legislation failed even in the Democratic Senate. Now he is leading the charge again through regulatory fiat. The Clean Power Plan must be stopped -- not just for coal country, but the whole country. 
Mr. Kelly is a Republican congressman from Pennsylvania. 
(See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: Let's Face It, Coal Has Had Its Day" -- WSJ Aug 12, 2014) 
(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: On the Unseemly Rush to Bury Coal as an Energy Source" -- WSJ Aug 18, 2014) 
Credit: By Mike Kelly 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Manufacturing; Electric rates; Coal industry; Environmental regulations; Energy policy; Coal-fired power plants; Emissions control; Industrial plant emissions  
Location  Pittsburgh Pennsylvania; United States--US  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  National Mining Association 813910;  
Name: NAICS:  Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 924110;  
Name: NAICS:  Heritage Foundation 541720;  
Name: NAICS:  National Association of Manufacturers 813910  
Classification  9190: United States 8500: Extractive industries 4330: Litigation  
Title  Pushing Back Against Obama's War on Coal  
Author  Kelly, Mike  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.13  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Aug 4, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1550741510  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1550741510?accountid=14902  

Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 289 of 376 


U.S. News: EPA Carbon-Emissions Plan Draws Union Protest in Pittsburgh 
Maher, Kris.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]01 Aug 2014: A.2. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+EPA+Carbon­Emissions+Plan+Draws+Union+Protest+in+Pittsburgh&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2014-08­01&volume=&issue=&spage=A.2&au=Maher%2C+Kris&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Several thousand unionized coal miners, electrical workers and others filled this city's downtown on Thursday to protest the Obama administration's proposed rule to curb carbon emissions from the nation's power plants, at the start of two days of hearings on the issue in the city. 

Full Text 
PITTSBURGH -- Several thousand unionized coal miners, electrical workers and others filled this city's downtown on Thursday to protest the Obama administration's proposed rule to curb carbon emissions from the nation's power plants, at the start of two days of hearings on the issue in the city. 
In an indication of how the issue has divided the labor movement, several major unions were absent from the protest. 
Some of those have backed the Environmental Protection Agency's proposal to cut greenhouse-gas emissions over the next several decades, while others haven't yet taken a clear position on the matter. 
The United Mine Workers of America and other unions that organized the rally argue that the EPA rule to lower carbon emissions by 30% by 2030, based on 2005 levels, would boost electricity prices and cost more than 65,000 jobs mostly across Appalachia, while doing little to address climate change globally. 
"It's going to be devastating if it goes through in its current form," said Cecil Roberts, president of the UMWA. 
More than a hundred representatives from the coal and utility industries, labor unions, environmental groups and others are scheduled to present their views during two days of agency hearings in the city, which began on Thursday. 
Environmental groups have applauded the rule and said it would also provide health benefits to communities downwind of power plants. 
Utility companies are already shifting away from burning coal because of the natural-gas boom and other environmental regulations. 
Credit: By Kris Maher 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Environmental protection; 
Emissions control; 
Energy policy; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Coal mining; 

Demonstrations & protests -- Pittsburgh Pennsylvania; 

Power plants 


Location 	United States--US; Appalachia; Pittsburgh Pennsylvania 
Company / organization 	Name: United Mine Workers--UMW 

NAICS: 813930; 

Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA NAICS: 924110 
Classification 	1540: Pollution control 6300: Labor relations 8340: Electric, water & gas utilities 9190: United States 
Title  U.S. News: EPA Carbon-Emissions Plan Draws Union Protest in Pittsburgh  
Author  Maher, Kris  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.2  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Aug 1, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1550071545  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1550071545?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 290 of 376 


U.S. News: Cost Concern Raised in Carbon Rule 
Harder, Amy.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]30 July 2014: A.5. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+Cost+Concern+Raised+in+Carbon+Rule&title=Wall+S 07-30&volume=&issue=&spage=A.5&au=Harder%2C+Amy&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
[...]the commissioners of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the government agency charged with overseeing the electric grid and other parts of the nation's energy infrastructure, also said at a House hearing the government has a responsibility to act on climate change. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- President Barack Obama's proposed rule to curb carbon emissions from the nation's power plants could raise costs and affect reliability in the U.S. electricity system, federal regulators told Congress. 
But the commissioners of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the government agency charged with overseeing the electric grid and other parts of the nation's energy infrastructure, also said at a House hearing the government has a responsibility to act on climate change. 
As part of Mr. Obama's climate agenda, the Environmental Protection Agency is proposing to cut carbon emissions from the electricity sector by 30% by 2030 based on emissions levels in 2005. States are expected to comply with the rule by using cleaner, though potentially more expensive, energy. 
Utility companies are already shifting away from coal because of the natural-gas boom and other environmental regulations. The rule is expected to accelerate the trend, which could put pressure on a grid that has been dominated by coal-fired plants. 
"I think all transitions cost money, so a transition to a new resource mix because of the environment or some other reason -- the long-term costs are unknown and depend on the relative cost of the fuel," said Acting FERC Chairman Cheryl LaFleur, a Democrat first nominated by Mr. Obama in 2010. 
Tony Clark, a Republican commissioner, pointed to the extreme cold weather seen in many parts of the country last winter -- known as a polar vortex -- to say FERC must ensure that the high electricity costs and close calls with rolling blackouts that have occurred in the Northeast "aren't exported to other regions of the country." 
In proposing the draft rule last month, Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Gina McCarthy said concerns about reliability were overblown, especially in connection with extreme weather. 
"I'm tired of people pointing to the polar vortex as a reason not to act on climate," she said. "Efficiency upgrades that slow climate change actually help cities insulate against blackouts." 
Credit: By Amy Harder 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Climate change; 
Energy policy; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Environmental regulations; 

Electric utilities; 

Emissions control 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Obama, Barack 
Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 

NAICS: 924110; 

Name: Federal Energy Regulatory Commission--FERC NAICS: 926110, 926130 
Classification 1540: Pollution control 8340: Electric, water & gas utilities 9190: United States 
Title  U.S. News: Cost Concern Raised in Carbon Rule  
Author  Harder, Amy  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.5  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Jul 30, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1549097634  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1549097634?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 291 of 376 


U.S. News: EPA Is Criticized Over Natural-Gas Emissions 
Harder, Amy.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]26 July 2014: A.5. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+EPA+Is+Criticized+Over+Natural­Gas+Emissions&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2014-07­26&volume=&issue=&spage=A.5&au=Harder%2C+Amy&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The Environmental Protection Agency is failing to control leaks of methane, a potent greenhouse gas, from the nation's natural-gas pipelines, the agency's inspector general said Friday. 

Full Text 
The Environmental Protection Agency is failing to control leaks of methane, a potent greenhouse gas, from the nation's natural-gas pipelines, the agency's inspector general said Friday. 
A report calls on the EPA to do more to control inadvertent emissions of methane, which has a more intense -- though shorter -- warming effect on the planet than carbon dioxide, the agency said. Natural gas consists almost entirely of methane. 
About $192 million of natural gas was lost in 2011 because of leaks in pipelines, known as distribution lines, that transport the fuel to end users, the inspector general said. That cost was borne by consumers, according to the report. 
The inspector general said a voluntary EPA program to encourage energy companies to address methane emissions hasn't helped to reduce leaks. 
The nation's plentiful supplies of natural gas are a central part of President Barack Obama's strategy to address climate change, since burning natural gas for energy produces 50% less in carbon emissions than burning coal. U.S. carbon emissions have fallen in recent years, in part due to natural gas supplanting coal in electricity generation. 
But the methane component of natural gas has prompted criticism of wider natural-gas use from environmentalists and some Democratic lawmakers, who say that because of the widespread leaks, gas may not be much better than coal when it comes to global warming. 
The report recommends that the EPA coordinate better with the federal Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration and help ensure that companies have financial incentives to repair leaks and replace older pipelines. The EPA doesn't currently regulate methane emissions from distribution pipelines, and the agency's inspector general can't compel it to do so. The Obama administration is expected to decide later this year whether to write new EPA regulations targeting methane. 
Distribution pipelines emit about a fifth of all the methane that seeps from the nation's natural-gas systems, including production fields where gas is pumped out of the ground, according to an April study by the EPA. 
"We're making strides to collect data, and we've established a substantial understanding of the sector's technical, policy and economic issues in order to achieve real, tangible methane-emissions reductions," EPA spokeswoman Liz Purchia said. 
The American Gas Association, which represents more than 200 natural-gas utilities that own and operate distribution pipelines, declined to comment on the report but said efforts already under way by its members have helped reduce methane emissions 22% since 1990. 
"A concerted effort by natural-gas utilities to upgrade and modernize our nation's pipeline network to enhance safety has also contributed significantly to a declining trend in emissions from the natural-gas system," AGA spokesman Jake Rubin said. 
Cassandra Sweet contributed to this article. 
Credit: By Amy Harder 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Environmental protection; 
Pipelines; 
Methane; 

Emissions control 


Location 	United States--US 
People  Obama, Barack  
Company / organization  Name:  Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS:  924110  

Classification  9190: United States  
1540: Pollution control  
1530: Natural resources  
4310: Regulation  
Title  U.S. News: EPA Is Criticized Over Natural-Gas Emissions  
Author  Harder, Amy  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.5  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Jul 26, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1548375459  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1548375459?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 292 of 376 


In the Arctic, Shipping Route Is Set to Supply LNG to Asia 
Iwata, Mari; Ma, Wayne.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]10 July 2014: B.8. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=In+the+Arctic%2C+Shipping+Route+Is+Set+to+Supply+LNG+to+Asia 07-10&volume=&issue=&spage=B.8&au=Iwata%2C+Mari%3BMa%2C+Wayne&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Wednesday's announcement by Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. and China Shipping Development Co. offered new details of how liquefied natural gas will get from one of the remotest locations on earth -- the $27 billion Yamal LNG facility being developed in western Siberia -- to urban areas in China and Japan. 

Full Text 
Shipping companies in China and Japan said they would start a regular service to carry Siberian natural gas across the Arctic Ocean to East Asia, showing how Asian demand for 
the fuel is reshaping global shipping routes. 
Wednesday's announcement by Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. and China Shipping Development Co. offered new details of how liquefied natural gas will get from one of the remotest 
locations on earth -- the $27 billion Yamal LNG facility being developed in western Siberia -- to urban areas in China and Japan. 

China Shipping Development said its joint venture with Mitsui O.S.K. would spend $932 million on three LNG carriers equipped with ice breakers, to be built by Daewoo 

Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Co. of South Korea. Service is set to begin as soon as 2018. 
Once virtually impassable, the Arctic Ocean is now attracting interest as a shipping route because global warming has reduced the ice cover within the Arctic Circle. More ships 
have been plying the northern route between Europe and Asia, which is roughly 40% shorter than the conventional path through the Suez Canal. 

Last year, 71 ships crossed the Arctic Ocean between Europe and Asia, compared with four in 2010, according to Japan's transportation ministry. 

Mitsui O.S.K. characterized its planned route as the first regular service linking Europe and Asia via the Arctic, although it will operate the Arctic route only during the warmer 
months of the year. 
"The shorter distance would be good for buyers, by cutting shipping costs and reducing other risks," said Yu Nagatomi, an economist at Tokyo's Institute of Energy Economics. 
The Yamal LNG project is 60%-owned by OAO Novatek of Russia, with 20% each held by Total SA of France and China National Petroleum Corp. Novatek has said it plans to 

have annual production capacity of 16.5 million tons. One of Novatek's largest shareholders is Gennady Timchenko, a close ally of Russian President Vladimir Putin who was put 

on a list of sanctions by the U.S. after Russia annexed Crimea. Russia is trying to diversify the customers for its energy and increase business in Asia. 
In addition to investing in the project, China National Petroleum is also one of the biggest customers for the Siberian natural gas, having signed a contract to purchase three 
million tons a year for 20 years, according to Novatek. 

CNPC didn't immediately respond to requests for comment. 

Two forces help explain Asia's demand for natural gas: Japan's move away from nuclear power after the 2011 Fukushima Daiichi nuclear accident and China's struggle with air 
pollution. 
Looking to reduce use of dirtier-burning coal, Beijing has set a target of boosting consumption of natural gas to 10% of its energy mix by 2020, up from less than 5% now. In 

addition to developing its own reserves and signing deals with countries such as Russia to import gas via pipeline, China has been looking for more liquefied natural gas -- the 

chilled and exportable form of the fuel. Chinese companies have taken equity stakes in projects in Australia and Canada in exchange for funding to develop the reserves. 
Japan, meanwhile, has stepped up natural-gas and coal imports to replace its 48 nuclear reactors, all of which are now offline. While a handful might resume operations this 
year or next, many older ones are viewed as too expensive to upgrade to tighter post-Fukushima safety standards. 

In May, the Japanese government held its first conference with the private sector to discuss the Arctic route. It estimated that 22% of the world's gas reserves lie around the 

Yamal area. 
"It's still far in the future, but the resource-rich Arctic Sea will be very important for Japan," said Ryo Minami, oil and gas director at the Ministry of Economy, Trade and 
Industry. 

The ships ordered by Mitsui O.S.K. and China Shipping Development are part of an expected fleet of 16 ice-breaker-equipped LNG carriers for the Yamal LNG project, which is 

based in the estuary of the Ob River facing the Arctic and is icebound for about nine months of the year. 
Shipping companies are still learning how to deal with unpredictable Arctic weather. Kazuya Hamazaki, general manager of Mitsui O.S.K.'s liquefied-natural-gas project group, 
said that while the Arctic service is intended to be regular, it might have to revert to more-conventional sea lanes if unexpected ice develops. 

Another challenge is how to evacuate crew members from the giant tankers in an emergency, because the ice might be too thick for lifeboats but too thin for humans. 

Joanne Chiu in Hong Kong and Costas Paris in London contributed to this article. 
Credit: Mari Iwata, Wayne Ma 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Global economy;  
Natural gas;  
Shipping industry  
Location  Siberia; East Asia  
Company / organization  Name: Mitsui OSK Lines Ltd  
NAICS: 488510;  
Name: China Shipping Group  
NAICS: 488510  
Classification  9179: Asia & the Pacific  
8500: Extractive industries  
8350: Transportation & travel industry  
Title  In the Arctic, Shipping Route Is Set to Supply LNG to Asia  
Author  Iwata, Mari; Ma, Wayne  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.8  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Jul 10, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1543949063  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1543949063?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  


document 293 of 376 


World News: EU Funds Coal Project 
Mock, Vanessa.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]09 July 2014: A.6. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=World+News%3A+EU+Funds+Coal+Project&title=Wall+Street+Journal& 07-09&volume=&issue=&spage=A.6&au=Mock%2C+Vanessa&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Once hailed as a silver bullet to fight climate change, the technology to capture and store carbon dioxide emissions of power stations has lost momentum in recent years as projects have struggled to attract funding. 

Full Text 
BRUSSELS -- Europe's first large-scale project to turn coal into a clean fuel was given hundreds of millions of euros by the European Union Tuesday, reviving hopes that the technology could finally get off the ground. 
The EU's climate change chief, Connie Hedegaard, said the funding would help the technology "make a substantial step forward" in Europe and shed light on the true potential of carbon capture and storage, known as CCS, in fighting global warming. 
"CCS can . . . play a role, but still we need to see it work on a big scale somewhere in the world," Ms. Hedegaard told reporters. 
Once hailed as a silver bullet to fight climate change, the technology to capture and store carbon dioxide emissions of power stations has lost momentum in recent years as projects have struggled to attract funding. 
In a breakthrough on Tuesday, the European Commission said it was giving 300 million euros ($408 million) to a U.K.-based project to capture emissions from a coal-burning power plant. The funding is the initial allocation from a 1 billion euro fund to encourage innovative clean-energy projects in the EU. 
The White Rose project in Yorkshire, England, is set to be the first major test-case for CCS in Europe, where progress on the technology has been slower than in Canada and the 
U.S. 
Credit: By Vanessa Mock 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Industrial plant emissions; 

Climate change; 
Emissions; 

Global warming; 
Carbon sequestration; 
Coal industry 


Location 	Europe 
People 	Hedegaard, Connie 
Company / organization 	Name: European Commission 

NAICS: 928120 


Classification 	9180: International 

1540: Pollution control 

1520: Energy policy 


Title 	World News: EU Funds Coal Project 
Author 	Mock, Vanessa 
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.6  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Jul 9, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1543603453  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1543603453?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 294 of 376 


A Climate Activist Bags Himself 
Jenkins, Holman W; Jr.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]09 July 2014: A.11. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=A+Climate+Activist+Bags+Himself&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn= 07-09&volume=&issue=&spage=A.11&au=Jenkins%2C+Holman+W%3BJr.&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The hedge-fund king has sought to propel himself to the top circle of Democratic money men and possible future officeholders on the strength of his concern about global warming. 

Full Text 
In "The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber," a Hemingway story, a man goes big game hunting who should have stayed home. Tom Steyer maybe should have stayed home. 
The hedge-fund king has sought to propel himself to the top circle of Democratic money men and possible future officeholders on the strength of his concern about global warming. He wants to spend $100 million this year influencing the midterm elections. All the media lately wants to talk about, though, is his thoroughly postmodern hypocrisy. 
The New York Times is the latest to investigate his former hedge fund's investments to increase the output of Indonesian and Australian coal mines to feed China during a period when China surpassed the U.S. as the world's biggest carbon-dioxide emitter. 
The Times report treads in the footsteps of a lengthy Reuters reconstruction, which follows the Canadian press's detailed reporting of his firm's tar sands investments. Many stories are festooned with environmentalist comments lamenting the damage Mr. Steyer did to the planet before he decided to save it. 
That a man's politics are against his economic interests might normally speak well for the sincerity of his politics. A better target of media investigation might be those who loudly preach climate calamity while lining up for green handouts, which would amplify some truly inconvenient truths. But never mind. It couldn't be happening to a more deserving guy. 
Mr. Steyer made his money wherever money was to be made. Then, when he wanted to start a new career, claimed to have experienced a "road to Damascus" conversion on climate and energy at age 55. 
By his own account, his transfiguration was induced by a long Rolling Stone article by activist Bill McKibben. Mr. McKibben's article, like all such articles, offered zero evidence (which remains elusive) of man's actual contribution to observed warming, let alone a pending catastrophe. 
Mr. Steyer thereupon convened two-dozen activists for a seminar at which, as the New Yorker reported, "there was no debate about the science and little debate about the policy prescriptions." 
He may be sincere, but does this not shriek of a man who convinces himself, or allows himself to be convinced, that mouthing the right liturgy and casting the right imprecations (while pouring millions into open palms) is the easy path to political grace? 
He wouldn't be the first to consider himself "passionate" on the subject of global warming without being quite so passionate as to delve into its complexities and ambiguities. But you might at least expect a shrewd latecomer to notice a few things -- such as how signally the standard doom-mongering and oil-bashing has failed to move the needle. But then the very cliched-ness of Mr. Steyer's adopted patter has been his lever to the overnight visibility and pseudo-influence that he apparently aspires to. 
And we do mean pseudo-influence. He vilifies the Koch brothers ("evil persons"), and lobbies universities and foundations to dump their fossil energy holdings, though the only effect is to transfer those holdings to investors like Mr. Steyer's former hedge fund that are immune to pressure and unwilling to forgo the profits from meeting the world's wholly non-illusory demand for energy. 
Advised by Clintonites John Podesta and Chris Lehane, he would spend millions to drive up the negatives of those candidates (invariably Republican) he would "destroy" (his word). But even if he succeeds in shifting the outcome of one or two close races, it will be because voters are angry at big oil over gas prices, not global warning. 
In case he hasn't noticed, the world is embarked on a multi-decade fossil-energy investment boom. A sliver of a sliver is $2.5 trillion the International Energy Agency says North America will invest in oil infrastructure alone in the next 20 years -- of which the Keystone pipeline would be 0.2%. 
A true revolution would be a new breed of climate activist who admitted what they didn't know and toned down their absurd pretense that they're going to ban or seriously curb fossil fuel by fiat. If they were smart, they would put all their effort into winning government funding for battery research. But there are reasons, quite apart from lack of imagination, which is the nicest explanation of Mr. Steyer's shrill imposture, that this doesn't happen. 
Our political system is adept at making use of people like Mr. Steyer. Democrats will gladly spend his $100 million, then go back to their real environmental business, which is green cronyism. Happily Mr. Steyer's fate won't be that of the Hemingway character -- who finally got to prove his merit while accidentally being shot in the head by his wife. But like Al Gore before him, Mr. Steyer will be able to say of his impact on the climate debate: I softened up the public to be milked for green handouts that did nothing for climate change. 
Credit: By Holman W. Jenkins, Jr. 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Fossil fuels;  
Criminal investigations;  
Hedge funds;  
Global warming  
Location  China; United States--US; Australia  
People  Steyer, Tom  
Classification  9180: International  
8130: Investment services  
1510: Energy resources  
Title  A Climate Activist Bags Himself  
Author  Jenkins, Holman W; Jr.  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.11  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Jul 9, 2014  
column  Business World  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1543603230  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1543603230?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 295 of 376 
WSJ 125 (A Special Report): Energy --- Why the 2034 Energy Picture May Look a Lot Like Today's: Daniel Yergin makes a case for little change, with a caveat: Energy surprises tend to confound the best predictions 
Yergin, Daniel.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]08 July 2014: R.18. 


Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=WSJ+125+%28A+Special+Report%29%3A+Energy+--­+Why+the+2034+Energy+Picture+May+Look+a+Lot+Like+Today%27s%3A+Daniel+Yergin+makes+a+case+for+little+change%2C+with+a+caveat%3A+Energy+surprises+tend 07-08&volume=&issue=&spage=R.18&au=Yergin%2C+Daniel&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
[...]virtually all growth in demand over the next 20 years will be in the emerging-markets countries, which will largely tilt toward conventional energy. What kind of incentives and subsidies are required to cause a transition away from conventional fuels? [...]recently, Germany saw itself as the world's model for the rapid introduction of renewables. 

Full text 
The world will soon run out ofits most important energy resource because supplies are "becoming exhausted." To stave off disaster, there must be a quick shift to wind power. 
No, the warning is not from 2014. Rather, it's from 1881, eight years before the first pages of The Wall Street Journal rolled off the press. And the speaker was no less than Lord Kelvin, one of the great scientists of the 19th century. 
That's a good reminder of how the actual "energy future" can confound the best predictions from the platform of the "energy present." And the reminders keep coming. Just six years ago, the U.S. was gearing up to spend $100 billion a year importing liquefied natural gas, or LNG, because of the increasingly high cost and apparent scarcity of domestic gas. Now the country is less than two years away from becoming an exporter of LNG, while European industry is migrating to the U.S. to take advantage of inexpensive natural gas. By 2021, the U.S. will be one of the top three LNG exporters in the world. 
Two lessons: Energy "surprises" occur and recur. And markets matter. So, with those caveats in mind, what might the energy world look like 20 years from now? The most likely answer, from today's perspective, is "bigger -- but not too different." The reasons are two. 
First, in the energy business, given the scale of existing infrastructure and the length of investment lead times, 20 years isn't very long. 
Second, virtually all growth in demand over the next 20 years will be in the emerging-markets countries, which will largely tilt toward conventional energy. Consider that two decades from now, the new-car market in China will likely be 41 million vehicles a year, compared with 17 million in the U.S. 
To be more specific: About two decades from now -- in what we call our "Global Redesign" scenario -- the world will be using between 35% and 40% more energy. That is the result of global economic growth and rising incomes in the developing world. 
Today, oil, natural gas and coal provide 82% of world energy. Twenty years from now, their share will be only slightly lower: 75% to 80%. There will, however, be a big shift in the mix among those conventional fuels. While coal use will decline in the U.S., it will increase in countries such as China and India, which will use coal as an inexpensive fuel for generating electricity. Natural gas will gain market share around the world. 
In the 1950s, oil toppled King Coal to seize the No. 1 position. But by the 2030s, the reign of oil will be over. It will be running a neck-and-neck race with coal and natural gas. By the end of the 2030s, it is likely that natural gas will pull ahead to become the world's No. 1 fuel. 
Emerging-markets countries are moving ahead with new nuclear power plants. But in Germany the fleet will be shut down by early in the next decade; only some of Japan's nuclear power plants will come back into operation, and part of the U.S. nuclear fleet will be looking at early retirement. So nuclear will likely hold constant at around 6% of total energy -- unless new designs, such as small modular reactors, begin to enter the market. 
What could change this picture? 
Technology is an obvious answer. Wind is moving from the "alternative" category to the "conventional." Further progress on costs could accelerate its adoption. Solar costs have come down dramatically in the past few years. Further declines would move solar more rapidly into the marketplace. Breakthroughs on electricity storage would give a further boost to wind and solar by overcoming their present dependence on blowing wind and shining sun. 
What about the electric car? China has set a goal of having a million electric cars on the road by 2020 -- a target on which it's way behind. At this point, the U.S. is ahead of China. But, even if the cost challenges are met and the electric car takes off in big volumes, the auto fleet is so large that the effect on fuel consumption would not be really felt until the 2030s. 
But policies, and their interaction with events, matter a lot. What kind of incentives and subsidies are required to cause a transition away from conventional fuels? Until recently, Germany saw itself as the world's model for the rapid introduction of renewables. But now it is becoming something of an anti-model, as the costs of the subsidies threaten a loss of global competitiveness, risking, in the words of Germany's economics minister, "a dramatic deindustrialization." 
But a new global push to accelerate renewables could be ignited by a combination of events: several years of "extreme weather," which powers a much stronger consensus about the imminent risks of climate change; and a severe security crisis that disrupts the flow of oil. 
In such circumstances, governments, pushed by alarmed publics, would rush new policies into place. 
Of course, events could work in the other way, too. During the global recession, European governments peeled back generous subsidies for renewables. Another steep economic downturn would have a similar effect, meaning a big setback for the renewables industry. 
What happens after the 2030s? Recent years have seen a "great bubbling" in scientific research and technological innovation around energy. The general lesson is that energy innovation takes a long time to reach the marketplace. 
In this wave of innovation, there will be many disappointments. But some parts of these efforts are likely to make their impact felt sometime in the 2030s. They may be small in number but could be oversize in terms of effect. And that is when the energy mix could start to look quite different. 
Mr. Yergin, vice chairman of IHS, is the author of "The Quest: Energy, Security, and the Remaking of the Modern World." Credit: By Daniel Yergin 

(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Government subsidies;  
Electric vehicles;  
Future;  
Innovations;  
Predictions;  
Series & special reports;  
Energy industry  
Location  United States--US; China  
Title  WSJ 125 (A Special Report): Energy --- Why the 2034 Energy Picture May Look a Lot Like  
Today's: Daniel Yergin makes a case for little change, with a caveat: Energy surprises tend to  
confound the best predictions  
Author  Yergin, Daniel  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  R.18  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Jul 8, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  

Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1543397425  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1543397425?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-20  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 296 of 376 


Birth of a Climate Mafia 
Jenkins, Holman W; Jr.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]02 July 2014: A.13. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Birth+of+a+Climate+Mafia&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=009996 07-02&volume=&issue=&spage=A.13&au=Jenkins%2C+Holman+W%3BJr.&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Can something good come from a U.S. splurge of climate pork that, in itself, would have no discernible effect on global climate or atmospheric carbon dioxide? A probable answer is no. In Germany, where vast subsidies flow to wind and solar, coal has become the fuel of choice for utilities struggling to provide backup power. 

Full Text 
Can something good come from a U.S. splurge of climate pork that, in itself, would have no discernible effect on global climate or atmospheric carbon dioxide? 
A probable answer is no. It would actually end up making our putative carbon challenge worse. 
But Paul Krugman and others say a carbon tax is politically impossible, and that we should settle for President Obama's "second-best" approach. The problem with subsidies and mandates is that they create vested interests in inefficient renewable energy. Warren Buffett already is collecting millions for what he admits is hopelessly cost-ineffective solar energy in California. State mandates for renewables favor in-state providers, discouraging competition that would lower costs. 
Lobbies that form around such favors are quietly unfriendly to interstate power lines that would force expensive local energy to compete with cheaper renewables elsewhere. In Germany, where vast subsidies flow to wind and solar, coal has become the fuel of choice for utilities struggling to provide backup power. Result: German carbon-dioxide output is growing not shrinking. 
Most glaring is the renewable lobby's opposition to fracking -- never mind that fracking, by displacing coal, has done more to reduce carbon output than renewables have. As for cap-and-trade, check out the Senate testimony two weeks ago by Joseph Mason, of LSU and the Wharton School, on how easily such schemes have succumbed to fraud and corruption. 
A straight-up, revenue-neutral carbon tax clearly is our first-best policy, rewarding an infinite and unpredictable variety of innovations by which humans would satisfy their energy needs while releasing less carbon into the atmosphere. 
Failing that, our second-best policy might well be to do nothing, skip the green pork bonanza, and hope that new energy technologies emerge out of the already-ample natural incentives to do so. Why? One thing that can be safely predicted is that renewable energy that becomes addicted to subsidies in order to survive will not meaningfully replace fossil energy that remains cheaper in real terms. 
Now the new entrants in the climate policy derby: Robert Rubin and Henry Paulson. Impressive is the fanfare greeting the former Treasury secretaries and their splashy, economically focused climate lobby, the "Risky Business Project." Unfortunately, they trod a well-worn path by trying to scare the American people into compliance. 
Their emphasis on "extreme weather" is an especially tired piece of foolishness. Whatever the human impact on climate, the overwhelming reason storms are becoming more destructive is the simple fact that more people and property stand in their way. 
Their unnaturally specific forecasts of rising sea levels and heat waves are based on the same speculative climate models that do such a poor job of explaining even the present and recent past -- and whose limits the report doesn't even mention in a footnote. The principals clearly want their assertions about the future to be taken as facts, not as extrapolations from simulations whose credibility they are wholly unprepared to defend. 
Their assertion that the U.S. can shame China and India into giving up carbon energy is no more plausible in their mouths than in anybody else's. But Mr. Paulson's policy heart is in the right place -- a carbon tax. He has explicitly rejected the climate cronyism of the Krugman-Obama school. 
Sadly he and the passel of worthies behind his group (including Michael Bloomberg and hedge-fund impresario Tom Steyer) colossally fumble their 15 minutes by adopting the hectoring, frighten-the-public approach that Al Gore, Bill McKibben and James Hansen have so reliably demonstrated leads nowhere, produces no results and ultimately discredits the cause. 
They should have focused on tax reform first -- on hope, growth and opportunity. Tax reform already has quietly been climbing the nation's agenda -- even President Obama has paid lip service. A tax reform that restored dynamism to the U.S. economy is an example that other countries could adopt out of self-interest, not because they are shamed into doing so by the overpowering moral gigantism of Al Gore. The one impeccable finding of climate science is a 40% increase in atmospheric carbon, even if our ability to detect its impact on climate is hampered by extraordinarily noisy weather data and the inadequacies of climate modeling. That's reason enough many voters might accept a modest carbon tax that would be offset by reduced payroll and income taxes. And if a technologically superior answer to our energy needs is in the cards, tax reform is a better way to help elicit it than anything else government might do. 
By the way, if we had to bet, our bet (not preference) would be that humanity will not organize a coherent and meaningful carbon policy. The worst-case climate scenarios will prove overdrawn. Fossil energy will be outmoded over some period by cheaper alternatives. To boot, the world will discover that climate change is not the greatest challenge facing it after all. 
Credit: By Holman W. Jenkins, Jr. 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Government subsidies;  
Environmental tax;  
Renewable resources;  
Tax reform;  
Climate change;  
Environmental policy  
Location  United States--US; California  
People  Paulson, Henry M; Obama, Barack; Buffett, Warren; Rubin, Robert E; Krugman, Paul  
Title  Birth of a Climate Mafia  
Author  Jenkins, Holman W; Jr.  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.13  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Jul 2, 2014  
column  Business World  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1541951914  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1541951914?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 297 of 376 


Memo to Anti-Coal Warriors: Make Nuclear Peace 
Tucker, William.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]01 July 2014: A.11. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Memo+to+Anti­Coal+Warriors%3A+Make+Nuclear+Peace&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2014-07­01&volume=&issue=&spage=A.11&au=Tucker%2C+William&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The initial concerns about air pollution had focused on coal, and environmental groups such as the Sierra Club were campaigning to lift the 20-year-old ban on imported oil so we could replace coal with low-sulfur oil from Libya and Indonesia. [...]America has lost its lead in nuclear technology. 

Full Text 
The Environmental Protection Agency has issued a 645-page ruling whose basic aim is to cut coal plants out of the mix in producing the nation's electricity. States will supposedly be given a choice, but the only real way to meet the agency's demands for carbon-dioxide reductions will be to cut back on coal. All this will be a devastating blow to the Midwestern economy, driving up energy prices for everyone, while having only the slightest impact on global warming. 
There is a great irony to this. In the early 1970s, coal was being phased out as the nation's principal source of electricity. The initial concerns about air pollution had focused on coal, and environmental groups such as the Sierra Club were campaigning to lift the 20-year-old ban on imported oil so we could replace coal with low-sulfur oil from Libya and Indonesia. 
All this came to a halt with the Arab oil embargo of 1973-74. It became clear that burning oil for electricity in the U.S. was a luxury we could no longer afford. But there was a salvation on the horizon. The nation was just embarking on a monumental effort to implement nuclear power, with almost 200 reactors on the drawing boards or in the pipeline. This would supplant both coal and oil and solve the problem of air pollution once and for all. (Concerns about carbon emissions had not yet arisen.) 
Work on more than 50 reactors had already begun when the effort hit a snag. With the new administration of President Jimmy Carter, environmentalists gained a foothold in the government for the first time. They were opposed to air pollution but they were more opposed to nuclear power. At the same time, Mr. Carter was under tremendous pressure to find a replacement for foreign oil, so environmentalists came up with a solution. Theorists such as soft-energy guru Amory Lovins argued that coal could be cleaned up through new technologies -- the fluidized bed, for instance, which pulverizes coal for nearly complete combustion. This would allow coal to serve as a bridge to the coming legions of wind, solar and other renewable energies that would be ready to take over completely somewhere around 2025. 
Given the choice between coal and nuclear, Mr. Carter chose coal. He canceled experimental reactors, shut down research, ended the reprocessing of spent fuel (a decision that created the unnecessary problem of nuclear waste), and effectively brought the technology to a halt. At the time, the nation was burning half-a-billion tons of coal a year. Mr. Carter vowed we would reach one billion tons by 2000 and that promise was fulfilled. Even as coal use declines today, we still consume just under one billion tons a year. 
As a result, America has lost its lead in nuclear technology. There are now 60 reactors under construction around the world -- including 26 in China -- but only four new ones being built in the U.S. Russia, France and South Korea are even further ahead in the technology, selling their reactors all over the world. India and Argentina each just brought a new reactor on line in May. 
On Friday, Russia fired up a fast breeder reactor, the holy grail that consumes all forms of nuclear waste. We abandoned the technology in the 1990s. 
To illustrate further how far things have declined in this country: Fourteen years ago Bill Gates assigned Microsoft's technology genius Nathan Myhrvold to explore the frontiers for advanced energy. Mr. Myhrvold settled on a design using the traveling wave, a reactor that burns for 50 years without refueling and consumes its own waste. After waiting a year at the gates of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission in Rockville, Md., Messrs. Gates and Myhrvold realized there was no hope of experimenting in the U.S. So they took their reactor design to China. In 2011 Mr. Gates signed an agreement with the Chinese National Nuclear Corporation to develop the traveling wave. 
The same thing is happening with thorium, which produces no plutonium and is therefore proliferation-proof. Most nuclear engineers believe thorium to be a far superior fuel to uranium. China and India are developing thorium technology, but not the U.S. 
It is ridiculous to think we can go into the Industrial Belt of the Midwest and tell people they must close down coal plants without anything to replace them. Natural gas is offered as an alternative, but with gas leading a manufacturing revival, pressure building to export it, and attempts under way to substitute gas for gasoline in our cars, who knows how long the price will remain low? 
We should be building nuclear reactors right beside every old coal plant. Had we pursued this path 40 years ago, we would not only have lowered U.S. carbon emissions, as have France and Sweden, but we could be helping other countries reduce theirs as well. We can still, if we go back to that road not taken and revive nuclear energy. 
Mr. Tucker is the author of "Terrestrial Energy: How Nuclear Power Will Lead the Green Revolution and End America's Energy Odyssey" (Bartleby Press, 2010). 
(See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: The Nuclear Future And Nuclear Present" -- WSJ July 10, 2014) 
Credit: By William Tucker 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Environmental protection;  
Energy policy;  
Coal;  
Nuclear energy  
Location  United States--US  
People  Carter, Jimmy  
Company / organization  Name: Sierra Club  
NAICS: 813312;  
Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS: 924110  
Classification  9190: United States  
1510: Energy resources  
1520: Energy policy  
Title  Memo to Anti-Coal Warriors: Make Nuclear Peace  
Author  Tucker, William  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.11  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Jul 1, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1541597491  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1541597491?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 298 of 376 


The Carbon Regulation Bubble 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]30 June 2014: A.10. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=The+Carbon+Regulation+Bubble&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00 06-30&volume=&issue=&spage=A.10&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The climate change industry always needs a fresh angle, and the latest is that carbon emissions are an economic threat akin to mortgage-backed securities before the financial panic. 

Full Text 
The climate change industry always needs a fresh angle, and the latest is that carbon emissions are an economic threat akin to mortgage-backed securities before the financial panic. The analogy comes from Hank Paulson -- and if he has spotted a bubble this time, we guess one out of two is an improvement on zero out of one. 
With the travelling billionaire wilburys of Tom Steyer and Michael Bloomberg, the former Treasury Secretary put out a 197-page study last week that predicts the costs of a warming catastrophe. Their "Risky Business" project is meant to awaken the green conscience of business leaders, and President Obama's endorsement was inevitable: Even George W. Bush's money man agrees . . . 
The report reads like a prospectus, except with years of "investments" in fossil fuels returning damage across industries and regions. The authors estimate storms along the eastern seaboard and Gulf of Mexico will cost $2 billion to $3.5 billion more, while they also look at so-called "tail risks," or worst-case crises with a 1-in-100 chance of happening: New York City could be 6.8 feet underwater by century's end, crops could wither in heat waves by 42%, and so forth. 
Mr. Paulson's particular contribution has been to summon the apparitions of the 2008 crash. He recently mused that his career in business and government taught him that "it is time to act before problems become too big to manage." The "climate bubble," as he puts it, is like the housing excesses that built up in the global financial markets and could lead to contagion. 
CEOs might reasonably question Mr. Paulson's skills as a risk manager, given that as Treasury chief he went along with the Beltway flow and assured the public that Fannie and Freddie were in good shape until it was too late. And are there even amateur investors who are unaware that climate change is a matter of some political interest? Many public companies already embed a proxy cost of carbon when they invest and disclose material risks that climate change may or may not pose to their balance sheets. 
"Risky Business" endorses a carbon tax, and that option really does share something with subprime loans and exotic financial instruments: Choosing to ration carbon today is a bet about the future -- and one likely to end no better. 
The world saw modest warming over the 20th century but temperatures have plateaued over the last 15 years or so, a pause the climate models did not predict and cannot explain. The climateers say the warming must be taking place deep in the ocean, which could be right but for which they have little evidence. There will always be inherent scientific uncertainty regarding a phenomenon as dynamic and complex as the Earth's climate, but the climateers admit to no uncertainty other than that the apocalypse might be worse. 
As a business proposition, Mr. Paulson wants to gamble on new taxes and regulation to prevent even unlikely dangers -- regardless of the costs and however minor the gains of 
U.S.
 decarbonization may turn out to be in practice. Yet China and the rest of the world will continue to rely on fossil fuels for decades as populations grow, economies expand and living standards rise. 

Turning over the U.S. economy to the green central planners may expose the country to even greater climate harms, to the extent that their ministrations impede economic progress. A wealthier future society will be better able to adapt and mitigate harm over time if Mr. Paulson's side of the bet is right. 

U.S.
 emissions have fallen to 1994 levels in large part because of the unconventional natural gas revolution, which burns cleaner than coal. That revolution might never have happened in a world of heavy carbon taxes. And the capital necessary to finance this and other innovation will be less available in a less prosperous country. 


Speculators like Mr. Paulson are actually inflating a climate regulation bubble -- and the real danger isn't that the problem is too big to manage. It's their supposed solution. 
(See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: Hank Paulson Was Right on the GSEs" -- WSJ July 8, 2014) 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Climate change; 
Fossil fuels; 
Emissions control; 
Editorials -- Emissions control 


People 	Steyer, Tom; Obama, Barack; Bloomberg, Michael; Bush, George W; Paulson, Henry M 
Title  The Carbon Regulation Bubble  
Author  Anonymous  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.10  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Jun 30, 2014  
column  REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  1541331001  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1541331001?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 299 of 376 


World News -- Analysis: Europe Pulled in Two Directions on Energy Policy 
Mock, Vanessa.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]27 June 2014: A.6. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=World+News+-­+Analysis%3A+Europe+Pulled+in+Two+Directions+on+Energy+Policy&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2014-06­27&volume=&issue=&spage=A.6&au=Mock%2C+Vanessa&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Russia's suspension last week of natural-gas deliveries to Ukraine, through which much of the EU's supply also travels, emphasizes the bloc's vulnerability. [...]a new policy could spur economic growth: 

Full Text 
Tensions between Russia and Ukraine provide a strong motivation for European Union leaders to have a fresh stab at overhauling Europe's energy strategy at their summit 
Friday, in an effort to improve security, cut costs and reduce vast differentials between countries. 
Russia's suspension last week of natural-gas deliveries to Ukraine, through which much of the EU's supply also travels, emphasizes the bloc's vulnerability. Moreover, a new 
policy could spur economic growth: Business leaders regularly complain of the EU's fractured energy market and high prices compared with the U.S. 

The European Commission has made numerous attempts to change the situation, without much success. Five years ago, it launched a bundle of measures at unifying national 

natural-gas and electricity markets, but prices and approaches to energy still differ widely from one EU country to the next. 
France relies heavily on nuclear power, which has been banned in next-door Germany, for instance. In Cyprus, industrial users paid 0.28 euros ($0.38) per kilowatt-hour for 
electricity last year, about three times as much as in France. 

The commission drew up a new energy-security strategy last month, setting out urgent and midterm priorities that tie-in with goals on fighting climate change. 

Among other things, the plan aims to encourage alternative gas suppliers, increase energy efficiency and boost home-produced energy, particularly renewables such as solar 
and wind. 
It is also pushing big infrastructure projects that would, for instance, allow natural gas and electricity to be sent from west to east, or south to north, and remove "energy 

islands" like the three Baltic countries, whose networks are connected to Russia but not to the rest of Europe. 
But the signs are that leaders will agree Friday only on short-term measures to mitigate against possible shortages this winter, kicking tougher decisions down the road. 
"Countries are extremely reluctant to move to a common approach on energy because they've got very different attitudes," says Fabian Zuleeg from the European Policy Centre, 

a think tank in Brussels. 

"There are competing priorities, such as the question of how much do we need low energy prices for competitiveness and for growth, how much climate-change mitigation can we finance, and how much energy dependency do we need and what that should cost." The commission says the bloc spends 1 billion euros a day on fossil-fuel imports, accounting for 53% of energy use, against 40% in 1990. Russia's OAO Gazprom monopoly 
supplied 39% of EU natural gas in 2013 -- and six EU countries, including Lithuania and Bulgaria, are entirely dependent on Gazprom for supplies. 
The EU says it sees huge economic gains from increasing renewable energy, and prices for wind and solar power are coming down sharply. But many countries and energy firms see cost as a major deterrent. And while Germany forges ahead on green energy, countries in Eastern and Central Europe still rely heavily on coal and other fossil fuels and say they don't have the funds to 
diversify supplies. 
"This does to some extent come down to money. A transition of any kind requires initial investment. Even if we're convinced that this will have a long-run return, it's still a 

question of where do you find the money, particularly in a crisis period where public investments are very low, where private companies are very reluctant to invest," says Mr. 
Zuleeg. 
Complicating matters is the political mood in some European countries, where anti-EU parties made large gains during last month's European elections. Many governments 

would be loath to hand over more power to the commission. 
"National governments are very reluctant to give away energy as a policy instrument," says Thomas Becker, CEO of the European Wind Energy Association. 
"But it's close to stupid to have 28 energy administrations, 28 ministries of energy, 28 regulators, when at the same time we're saying that both consumers and industry should 

have cheap energy." 

EU leaders are meant to reach agreement by October. EU officials warn this deadline could be ambitious. If talks drag on, and the immediate crunch with Ukraine is resolved, 
the impetus might vanish once again. 
Credit: By Vanessa Mock 

(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Natural gas; Energy industry; Energy policy; International relations  
Location  Russia; Germany; United States--US; Europe; France; Ukraine  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  OAO Gazprom 211111, 221210;  
Name: NAICS:  European Commission 928120;  
Name: NAICS:  European Union 926110, 928120  
Classification  9180: International 1520: Energy policy 1210: Politics & political behavior  
Title  World News -- Analysis: Europe Pulled in Two Directions on Energy Policy  
Author  Mock, Vanessa  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.6  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Jun 27, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1540651600  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1540651600?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  

Database US Newsstream 
document 300 of 376 


U.S. News -- The Wall Street Journal / NBC News Poll: Poll Shows Erosion in President's Support --­Only 37% Back Obama's Handling of Foreign Policy, but Respondents Side With Him on Climate Change and Education 
O'Connor, Patrick.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]18 June 2014: A.4. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News+-­+The+Wall+Street+Journal+%2F+NBC+News+Poll%3A+Poll+Shows+Erosion+in+President%27s+Support+--­+Only+37%25+Back+Obama%27s+Handling+of+Foreign+Policy%2C+but+Respondents+Side+With+Him+on+Climate+Change+and+Education&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn= 06-18&volume=&issue=&spage=A.4&au=O%27Connor%2C+Patrick&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Respondents split in half on whether the Obama administration is competent, lower marks than Americans gave former President George W. Bush's administration in 2006, after the war in Iraq and the bungled response to Hurricane Katrina derailed his presidency. [...]two-thirds of those polled said they either "strongly" or "somewhat" support new rules outlined by Mr. Obama to set strict emissions caps on coal-fired power plants to significantly reduce carbon emissions by 2030. 

Full Text 
Foreign crises and domestic economic unease have eroded President Barack Obama's public standing, sapping his ability to respond to overseas conflicts and weighing on fellow Democrats heading into the midterm elections. 
As clouds gather abroad, a new Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll finds Mr. Obama's job approval rating at 41%, matching a previous low. Approval of his handling of foreign policy hit a new low of 37%. Both numbers are driven in part by conflicts largely outside the president's control, including a new wave of sectarian violence in Iraq. 
This latest dip in Mr. Obama's approval runs contrary to signs Americans agree with his policies on climate change and education, and as a divided Republican Party remains far less popular than the president and his party. Despite misgivings toward Mr. Obama, the survey showed the public sides with him and his fellow Democrats on a range of issues, including immigration, education and the environment. 
The latest Journal poll of 1,000 adults, conducted between Wednesday and Sunday, highlights what appears to be a lasting slide in the president's public image. Respondents split in half on whether the Obama administration is competent, lower marks than Americans gave former President George W. Bush's administration in 2006, after the war in Iraq and the bungled response to Hurricane Katrina derailed his presidency. 
At the same time, Americans seem to be losing faith in Mr. Obama's ability to accomplish his goals, with 54% of those polled saying they no longer feel the president "is able to lead the country and get the job done," compared with the 42% who said he could. And 41% said his administration's performance has gotten worse over the past year, compared with the 15% who noted improvement. 
A plurality opposes the prisoner exchange that led to the release of Army Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl, who recently returned to the U.S. after five years in captivity in Afghanistan. And 65% of the poll respondents don't think the war there was worthwhile. One bright spot for Mr. Obama is that Republicans and Democrats are in general agreement that the problems at veterans hospitals stem from government bureaucracy, not mismanagement by the administration. 
Another ominous trend for Democrats heading into a midterm election that tends to swing on turnout: Mr. Obama has lost significant altitude among core constituencies such as Hispanics and younger Americans. The share of Hispanics who see Mr. Obama favorably and approve of his job performance has dropped from 67% in January 2013 to 44% in the latest poll. 
"It all comes back to one word: leadership," said Democratic pollster Peter Hart, who helps conduct the poll with Democrat Fred Yang and Republican Bill McInturff. "He may be winning the issues debate, but he's losing the political debate because they don't see him as a leader." 
Anita Windley, 30, who voted for Mr. Obama in 2008 and again in 2012, doesn't think he's doing enough to help people in her New York City neighborhood. She complains that jobs are still hard to find and the local schools are subpar. "It's time for somebody new," she said, "like Hillary." 
The poll found former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton remains the undisputed favorite for the Democratic nomination, drawing positive reviews from four out of five Democrats. But her prospects in a general election look a little less secure, with roughly as many people saying they would never support her as those who said they either probably or definitely would. The poll has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.1 percentage points. 
On the issues, there are plenty of numbers that provide solace for Democrats 
More than six in 10 Americans said they believe climate change is either "a serious problem" requiring "immediate action" or a big enough concern that "some action should be taken." A quarter of respondents said more research is necessary before policy makers should act, while only 13% said the fears were "unwarranted." 
In addition, 57% said they would favor a proposal to curb greenhouse gas emissions, even if it results in higher energy bills. And two-thirds of those polled said they either "strongly" or "somewhat" support new rules outlined by Mr. Obama to set strict emissions caps on coal-fired power plants to significantly reduce carbon emissions by 2030. Twenty-nine percent said they opposed them. 
In a similar vein, 59% said that they support a set of minimum education standards known as Common Core, a favorite target of conservative Republicans. And 47% said that immigration helps the U.S., compared with the 42% who said it hurts the country. Even on the question of government regulations, half of those polled said most regulations are necessary "to protect consumers and the environment," while 42% said they were unnecessary. 
But the big story remains Mr. Obama's struggles to define his presidency amid widespread frustration with the economy and other setbacks, including the recent upheaval in Iraq. 
"The cumulative impact of these are bending and bowing the presidency in a way that historically has meant a difficult election" for the president's party, Mr. McInturff said. "It's going to be a very good Republican year." 
Michelle Hackman contributed to this article. 
Methodology 
The Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll was based on nationwide telephone interviews of 1,000 adults, including a sample of 300 who use only a cellphone. 
It was conducted from June 11-15, 2014, by the polling organizations of Bill McInturff at Public Opinion Strategies and Fred Yang at Hart Research Associates. Individuals were selected proportionate to the nation's population in accordance with a probability sample design that gives all landline telephone numbers, listed and unlisted, an equal chance to be included. Adults age 18 or over were selected by a systematic procedure to provide a balance of respondents by sex. 
The cellphone sample was drawn from a list of cellphone users nationally, and respondents were screened to ensure that their cellphone is their only phone. 
The data's margin of error is plus or minus 3.1 percentage points. Sample tolerances for subgroups are larger. 
Credit: By Patrick O'Connor 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Foreign policy; 

Polls & surveys; 

Presidents 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Obama, Barack 
Classification 	9190: United States 

1210: Politics & political behavior 


Title 	U.S. News -- The Wall Street Journal / NBC News Poll: Poll Shows Erosion in President's 
Support --- Only 37% Back Obama's Handling of Foreign Policy, but Respondents Side With 
Him on Climate Change and Education 

Author 	O'Connor, Patrick 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.4 
Publication year 	2014 
Publication date 	Jun 18, 2014 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 	00999660 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1536773461  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1536773461?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 301 of 376 


The Pace of Obama's Disasters 
Stephens, Bret.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]17 June 2014: A.11. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=The+Pace+of+Obama%27s+Disasters&title=Wall+Street+Journal&is 06-17&volume=&issue=&spage=A.11&au=Stephens%2C+Bret&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
[...]because the administration has a theological objection to using military force in Iraq to prevent it from being overrun by al Qaeda or dissolving into potentially genocidal civil war, it will now work with Tehran, a designated state sponsor of terrorism for 30 years and a regime that continues to arm Hezbollah in Lebanon, Islamic Jihad in Gaza and Bashar Assad in Syria, to help "stabilize" Iraq. [...]that's unfair to Attlee, who could count on a powerful ally to pick up England's dropped reins, rescue Europe, stop the Soviets. 

Full Text 
Correction 
The $787 billion stimulus bill of 2009 exceeded the estimated $770 billion appropriated for the war in Iraq. Bret Stephens's "Global View" column ("The Pace of Obama's Disasters," June 17) incorrectly stated that the stimulus exceeded the costs of war in Iraq and Afghanistan combined. 
(WSJ June 18, 2014) 
Was it only 10 months ago that President Obama capitulated on Syria? And eight months ago that we learned he had no idea the U.S. eavesdropped on Angela Merkel? And seven months ago that his administration struck its disastrous interim nuclear deal with Tehran? And four months ago that Chuck Hagel announced that the United States Army would be cut to numbers not seen since the 1930s? And three months ago that Russia seized Crimea? And two months ago that John Kerry's Israeli-Palestinian peace effort sputtered into the void? And last month that Mr. Obama announced a timetable for total withdrawal from Afghanistan -- a strategy whose predictable effects can now be seen in Iraq? 
Even the Bergdahl deal of yesterweek is starting to feel like ancient history. Like geese, Americans are being forced to swallow foreign-policy fiascoes at a rate faster than we can possibly chew, much less digest. 
Consider the liver. 
On Thursday, Russian tanks rolled across the border into eastern Ukraine. On Saturday, Russian separatists downed a Ukrainian transport jet, murdering 49 people. On Monday, Moscow stopped delivering gas to Kiev. All this is part of the Kremlin's ongoing stealth invasion and subjugation of its neighbor. And all of this barely made the news. John Kerry phoned Moscow to express his "strong concern." Concern, mind you, not condemnation. 
If the president of the United States had any thoughts on the subject, he kept them to himself. His weekly radio address was devoted to wishing America's dads a happy Father's Day. 
Also last week, the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria seized Mosul. Then ISIS took Tikrit. Then it was Tal Afar. Mass executions of Shiites in each place. The administration is taking its time deciding what, if any, aid it will provide the government in Baghdad. But it is exploring the possibility of using Iraq's distress as an opportunity to open avenues of cooperation with Tehran. 
So because the administration has a theological objection to using military force in Iraq to prevent it from being overrun by al Qaeda or dissolving into potentially genocidal civil war, it will now work with Tehran, a designated state sponsor of terrorism for 30 years and a regime that continues to arm Hezbollah in Lebanon, Islamic Jihad in Gaza and Bashar Assad in Syria, to help "stabilize" Iraq. At least the White House has ruled out military cooperation with Iran. But give it time. 
Here, then, is the cravenness that now passes for cleverness in this administration: Make friends with a terrorist regime to deal with a terrorist organization. Deliver Iraq's Arab Shiites into the hands of their Persian coreligionists, who will waste no time turning southern Iraq into a satrapy modeled on present-day Lebanon. 
Deal brusquely with Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki -- who, for all his manifest shortcomings as a leader nonetheless wishes to be our ally -- and obsequiously with an Iranian regime that spent the better part of the last decade killing American soldiers. Further alienate panicky allies in Riyadh and Jerusalem for the sake of ingratiating ourselves with the mullahs. 
Hand those mullahs some additional strategic leverage as they head into the next (supposedly final) round of nuclear negotiations. 
"We are, I am afraid, drifting in a state of semi-animation, towards the rapids." Those where the words of Hugh Dalton, Clement Attlee's chancellor of the exchequer, describing the state of Britain in the winter of 1947, on the eve of the end of Empire. 
Back then, the U.K. had spent a quarter of its national treasure fighting World War II. It was still spending 19% of its GDP on its military budget. The coldest winter in its history had frozen the country's stocks of coal, causing electricity blackouts and putting two million people out of work. 
The U.S. faces no such crises today. Mr. Obama blew more money on his stimulus plan in 2009 than we had spent up until then on the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan combined. Defense spending in the U.S. amounts to 4% of GDP. Our economy is sluggish, but it isn't crumbling. 
Yet when it comes to leadership, we have our very own Clement Attlee at the top, eager to subtract the burdens of international responsibility so he can get on with the only thing that really animates him, which is building social democracy at home. Actually, that's unfair to Attlee, who could count on a powerful ally to pick up England's dropped reins, rescue Europe, stop the Soviets. Mr. Obama's method is to ignore a crisis for as long as possible, give a speech, impose a sanction, and switch the subject to climate change or income inequality. 
America's retreat needn't end in tragedy, and even the Obama presidency is a survivable event. But the strategic blunders and international disasters are accumulating at an unsustainable pace. This is what the real post-American world looks like. 
Credit: By Bret Stephens 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	International relations-US; 

Presidents; 
Political behavior; 
Foreign policy -- United States--US 


Location 	Syria; Russia; Iraq; United States--US; Ukraine 
People 	Obama, Barack 
Title 	The Pace of Obama's Disasters 
Author 	Stephens, Bret 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.11 
Publication year 	2014 
Publication date 	Jun 17, 2014 
column 	Global View 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 	00999660 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	Commentary 
ProQuest document ID 	1535917467 
Document URL 	https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1535917467?accountid=14902 
Copyright 	(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further 
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Last updated 	2017-11-21 
Database 	US Newsstream 
document 302 of 376 


Dreaming the Impossible Green Dream 
Bryce, Robert.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]12 June 2014: A.15. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Dreaming+the+Impossible+Green+Dream&title=Wall+Street+Journa 06-12&volume=&issue=&spage=A.15&au=Bryce%2C+Robert&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
According to several academic studies, the areal power density of wind energy -- that is, the amount of power that can be derived from a given amount of land -- is about one watt per square meter. 

Full Text 
In the June 5 issue of Rolling Stone magazine, Bill McKibben declares his desire to "set the world on a fundamentally new course." He's inviting fellow climate-change activists to participate in a "People's Climate March" in New York City on Sept. 20 -- which he hopes will be the "largest demonstration yet of human resolve in the face of climate change." 
Mr. McKibben is among the world's most famous environmentalists. He's written or edited 15 books and been awarded honorary degrees from 18 colleges and universities. He is also the founder of 350.org, whose goal is to reduce atmospheric carbon-dioxide levels to 350 parts per million from the current level of about 400 parts per million. To achieve that goal, he's written that "we need to cut our fossil fuel use by a factor of twenty over the next few decades." 
But what are the actual implications of cutting fossil fuels 20-fold? Let's "do the math," as Mr. McKibben is fond of saying. 
Global hydrocarbon consumption is now about 218 million barrels of oil equivalent energy a day, according to the BP Statistical Review of World Energy, which includes 83 million barrels of oil as well as about 75 million barrels of oil equivalent from coal and about 60 million barrels of oil equivalent from natural gas. Reducing that by a factor of 20 would cut global hydrocarbon use to the energy equivalent of 11 million barrels of oil a day, roughly the amount of energy now consumed by India, where 400 million people lack access to electricity. 
In 2012, the average resident of planet Earth consumed about 1.3 gallons of oil-equivalent energy a day from hydrocarbons. If Mr. McKibben's plan were enacted -- and we shared those available hydrocarbons equally -- each of us would be allotted about eight fluid ounces of oil-equivalent energy from hydrocarbons a day. Today, the average resident of Bangladesh uses about half a liter of oil equivalent -- slightly less than 17 ounces -- a day. Under Mr. McKibben's prescription, the average Bangladeshi would be required to cut his hydrocarbon use by about half. 
Like many others among the green left, Mr. McKibben insists that the prospect of catastrophic climate change means we must rely solely on renewable energy (and no nuclear power, either). What would that mean? Again, let's "do the math." And to keep it simple, let's ignore oil (even though it accounts for about a third of all energy consumption) and focus solely on electricity. 
Over the past three decades, according to the BP Review, global electricity demand has been growing by about 450 terawatt-hours a year. And the International Energy Agency expects power demand will continue growing by about that pace for the next two decades. 
What would be required if we relied on solar energy to keep up with expected growth in electricity demand? Let's look at Germany, which has more solar capacity than any other country, about 33,000 megawatts. In 2012 those solar facilities produced 28 terawatt-hours of electricity. Thus the world would have to install about 16 times as much photovoltaic capacity as Germany's entire installed base, and it would have to do so every year. 
Wind? Merely to keep pace with the global growth in electricity demand would require the installation of about 280,000 megawatts of new wind-energy capacity every year. According to several academic studies, the areal power density of wind energy -- that is, the amount of power that can be derived from a given amount of land -- is about one watt per square meter. This means that installing the requisite additional wind capacity would require covering about 280,000 square kilometers (108,000 square miles of land) -- an area nearly the size of Italy -- with wind turbines, every year. (For comparison, the areal power density of nuclear power is more than 50 watts per square meter. The productivity of oil and gas wells vary, but even marginal wells have power densities of about 27 watts per square meter.) 
Late last month I emailed Mr. McKibben, asking for his calculations regarding the energy-supply, land-use, or economic implications of his 20-fold reduction plan for hydrocarbons. His response included no math on the quantity of hydrocarbons available, nor any numbers for expected land use, or costs. Instead Mr. McKibben pointed mainly to a report earlier this year by Mark Jacobson, an engineering professor at Stanford University, which claims that wind, water and solar could meet all U.S. energy demand by 2050. 
That document, in turn, refers largely to a 2010 paper Mr. Jacobson published in the journal Energy Policy, which rests heavily on the assumption that some type of electricity-storage system will be invented so that we can store the intermittent energy harnessed from the wind and sun. How reasonable is that assumption? Energy storage, Mr. Jacobson writes, "is a critical area for new research." 
My email to Mr. McKibben also inquired about the need for refined petroleum products in transportation and aviation. His response ignored aviation but replied that "we've made great strides in electrifying vehicles." The energy he collects from the solar panels on his house, he wrote, can power his Ford C-Max on "most days." 
Here's a suggestion: As a test of his scheme to cut hydrocarbon use 20-fold, Mr. McKibben and his allies making the pilgrimage to the September climate-change march, should be required to travel to New York City in solar-powered cars. If there aren't enough of those, they should be required to walk to the Big Apple. 
It will be a good test. For if policy makers implement Mr. McKibben's energy plan, we'll all be walking. A lot. 
Mr. Bryce is a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute. His most recent book, "Smaller Faster Lighter Denser Cheaper: How Innovation Keeps Proving the Catastrophists Wrong," 
was published in May by Public Affairs. 
(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: Will Renewable Energy Ever Meet Global Demands?" -- WSJ June 18, 2014) 
Credit: By Robert Bryce 

(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Oil reserves;  
Petroleum industry;  
Alternative energy sources;  
Environmentalists;  
Energy policy;  
Climate change  
Location  United States--US  
People  McKibben, Bill  
Title  Dreaming the Impossible Green Dream  
Author  Bryce, Robert  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.15  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Jun 12, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1534669239  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1534669239?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 303 of 376 


Obama's Five-Year Plan 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]05 June 2014: A.14. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Obama%27s+Five­Year+Plan&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2014-06­05&volume=&issue=&spage=A.14&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
China's rising incomes and growing middle class will eventually force environmental improvements, even if the party is more likely to focus on such tangible harms as smog, haze, crop and groundwater contamination or diseased pigs floating down rivers before climate change. 

Full Text 
President Obama's climate leadership sure gets results fast. The very next day after the Environmental Protection Agency's anticarbon broadside, China suddenly concluded it is on the wrong side of history and decided to limit its emissions too. Or so many liberal Americans are choosing to believe. 
He Jiankun, a senior scientific adviser to the Chinese regime, told an academic conference in Beijing this week that China would adopt "an absolute cap" on carbon in its forthcoming five-year plan, the 13th since 1953. Reuters reported the comments as a political breakthrough ahead of the U.N. treaty gabfest later this year in Lima, Peru, and the report got America's anticarbon Rockettes kicking. 
Too bad Mr. He later advised Reuters that he was merely tendering "my personal view" and that "what I said does not represent the Chinese government." He added to the New York Times that the cap is only under study and "I'm not a government official." If Mr. He isn't careful, he'll wind up like the health, food and railway ministers executed for various Chinese scandals. 
Many progressives admire China's political system because democratic consent is not an obstacle to statist planning, like it is supposed to be in America, and that more even than credulousness may explain why they'd fall for the idea that the People's Republic is a green paragon. A visit to Langfang or Guangzhou might disabuse that notion. If China is a solider in the war on carbon, coal is winning. 
The reality is that for years the world's worst polluter has been promising to taper back emissions in order to string along the Western climatenauts, only to treat such pledges as discretionary. EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy could become the General Secretary of the Communist Party, and the governors of the provinces would continue to break her regulations to prioritize economic growth and jobs. 
China's environmental corruption is a more egregious version of the European habit of treating the Kyoto Protocol's legal mandates as mere suggestions. Unlike Italy or China, the U.S. enforces its laws, even those like Ms. McCarthy's anticarbon ukase that bypass the elected legislature. 
China's rising incomes and growing middle class will eventually force environmental improvements, even if the party is more likely to focus on such tangible harms as smog, haze, crop and groundwater contamination or diseased pigs floating down rivers before climate change. As for the EPA inspiring a world-wide change of carbon heart, we'll repeat our point from earlier this week: Good luck persuading Xi Jinping. 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Emissions control; 
Environmental regulations; 

Editorials -- Emissions control 


Location 	China; Peru; United States--US; Beijing China 
People 	Obama, Barack; McCarthy, Gina; He Jiankun 
Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 

NAICS: 924110; 

Name: New York Times Co NAICS: 511110, 511120, 515112, 515120 
Title 	Obama's Five-Year Plan 
Author  Anonymous  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.14  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Jun 5, 2014  
column  REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  1532373002  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1532373002?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 304 of 376 


U.S. News: U.S. Carbon Cuts Face a Global Test 
Naik, Gautam.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]04 June 2014: A.4. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+U.S.+Carbon+Cuts+Face+a+Global+Test&title=Wall+S 06-04&volume=&issue=&spage=A.4&au=Naik%2C+Gautam&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
[...]the U.S. proposal could spur China to be more aggressive in tackling emissions, she added. [...]they could be laid back and say that as long as the U.S. wasn't moving, why should they? I hope this will inspire China" to act. 

Full Text 
America's push to cut carbon-dioxide emissions is partly intended to spur other large emitters -- especially China -- to cut their own emissions more aggressively to tackle climate change. But will it work? 
Other countries already have national policies aimed at cutting carbon-dioxide emissions, and they are much further along than the U.S. The world's largest system for trading emission allowances is operated by the European Union, which covers more than 11,000 power stations and industrial plants in 31 countries, as well as airlines. 
Persuading other countries to follow suit won't be easy. Many developing countries are on a long-term path of trying to industrialize their economies and continue to resist big domestic cuts in carbon emissions. 
"No matter what your view of climate change, these [U.S.] reductions will be dwarfed by increased emissions in other parts of the world," said Stephen Eule, a vice president at the Institute for 21st Century Energy, part of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. 
Connie Hedegaard, commissioner for climate action in the European Commission, which sets laws for the 28 countries of the EU, said the Obama administration announcement "is more than symbolic -- it is a step that the rest of the world has been waiting for." 
Nonetheless, she said the U.S. move would reduce overall domestic carbon emissions by just 3% to 4% over the 1990-2020 period. Over those years, the EU's emissions are on track to decline 24%, topping its own target of 20%. And the EU's current goal is even more ambitious: to cut emissions by 40% by 2030. 
However, the U.S. proposal could spur China to be more aggressive in tackling emissions, she added. "Until now, they could be laid back and say that as long as the U.S. wasn't moving, why should they? I hope this will inspire China" to act. 
Reuters on Tuesday quoted an adviser to the Chinese government as saying Beijing plans an absolute cap on carbon-dioxide emissions by 2020. But Gordon Hughes, a professor of economics at the University of Edinburgh in Scotland, said it would be difficult for China to suddenly set major targets for reducing emissions. 
"China has such a vast program of building new coal-fired power plants that it can't just simply be stopped," said Mr. Hughes, who spent time studying climate change in China for the World Bank. 
Some in India said that if the U.S. expects developing-world governments to choose the high-cost high road, then the U.S. has to prove it is making the tough choices as well. "Carbon emissions in the U.S. are significantly more than emissions by India," said one senior environment ministry official in New Delhi. "The U.S. is a developed country and should do a 60% to 70% emission cut." 
Scientists have warned that if the average global temperature were to increase by more than two degrees Celsius, it could trigger high-impact climatic changes. At a meeting in Cancun, Mexico, in 2010, that scenario prompted about 200 countries to agree to emission cuts aimed at ensuring the two-degree threshold wasn't breached. 
So far, their actions have fallen short, and carbon-dioxide emissions continue to rise. A recent United Nations report concluded that if the current rate of emissions growth continues unabated, global temperatures would increase between 2 and 3.2 degrees above preindustrial levels by midcentury. 
A test of U.S. influence on global climate policy could come in Paris in 2015, when representatives from governments around the world meet to hash out a new global pact aimed at extending emission-reduction targets beyond 2020. 
Wayne Ma, Kersten Zhang and Saurabh Chaturvedi contributed to this article. (See related article: "What Will Carbon Rules Really Cost?" -- WSJ June 4, 2014) Credit: By Gautam Naik 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Climate change;  
Environmental protection;  
Carbon dioxide;  
Industrial plant emissions;  
Coal-fired power plants;  
Emissions control;  
Environmental policy  
Location  United States--US; China  
Classification  1540: Pollution control  
9180: International  
1520: Energy policy  
Title  U.S. News: U.S. Carbon Cuts Face a Global Test  
Author  Naik, Gautam  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.4  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Jun 4, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1531853665  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1531853665?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-20  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 305 of 376 


U.S. News: EPA Rules: Tough For Some States, Easier for Others 
Harder, Amy; Mundy, Alicia.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]04 June 2014: A.4. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+EPA+Rules%3A+Tough+For+Some+States%2C+Easie 06-04&volume=&issue=&spage=A.4&au=Harder%2C+Amy%3BMundy%2C+Alicia&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The EPA's plan sets in motion the main piece of President Barack Obama's climate-change agenda and is designed to give states and power companies flexibility in reaching the target, which is an average 30% cut in carbon emissions from the nation's power plants by 2030, based on emission levels from 2005. 

Full Text 
Kentucky appears to have it easy under the Obama administration's new climate rule unveiled Monday, with an 18.3% cut in carbon-dioxide emissions required by 2030. Washington state, by contrast, must cut its emissions by 72%. 
But Kentucky's goal will be anything but easy, said John Lyons, the state's assistant secretary for climate policy. Burning coal produces more carbon dioxide than oil and natural gas, and Kentucky gets 93% of its power from coal -- well above the national average of 40%. So reducing it by almost one-fifth will be a challenge. 
"It may be very difficult getting that last couple hundred pounds [of carbon]," according to Mr. Lyons. 
Where Kentucky finds hardship in a relatively small reduction, Washington state sees little problem meeting what is objectively the greatest percentage reduction required of any state. Officials in Washington, where hydropower predominates, are confident they can meet the standard -- in large part because the one coal plant in the state is scheduled to close by 2025. 
The two states' experiences offer a contrasting snapshot of how states across the U.S. are expected to comply with the EPA's rule, as they face challenges meeting the standards that could differ widely from their neighbors. The agency set the goals based on what it thinks each state can achieve, taking into account several factors, including the energy mixes in the region. 
The EPA's plan sets in motion the main piece of President Barack Obama's climate-change agenda and is designed to give states and power companies flexibility in reaching the target, which is an average 30% cut in carbon emissions from the nation's power plants by 2030, based on emission levels from 2005. The utility sector accounts for about one-third of U.S. total carbon emissions, the EPA says. 
While Kentucky will have a hard time meeting what appears to be a relatively easy standard, Mr. Lyons cautiously praised the plan. "I think EPA recognizes our issue and provided the flexibility that we had said was needed in order to meet whatever standards they put forward," he said. 
But not everyone is so sanguine. The rule, expected to become final one year from now, is already facing political and legislative resistance from coal-state lawmakers, including Republican Mitch McConnell, Kentucky's senior senator. 
"It's clear that the president is trying to impose this national energy tax via executive order because he knows the representatives of the people would never vote for it," Mr. McConnell, the top Senate Republican, said Tuesday as he introduced a bill to stop the rule altogether. 
Many state officials have been reacting cautiously to the rule, which runs some thousand pages, including technical documents. But certain states traditionally critical of the EPA already have accused the agency of taking away states' rights. 
"Through its top-down approach, the EPA is taking away the ability of the states to design and implement plans suitable to each state's unique circumstances," said Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt, a Republican. Mr. Pruitt, whose office has sued the EPA on other major rules, called the rule "arbitrary." 
In Washington, the coal-fired plant in the state's southwestern corner is the single largest source of carbon emissions, accounting for about 70% of that pollution. In 2011, the state legislature passed a bill to close the facility by 2025. 
The state also has increased its conservation and wind generation, according to David Danner, chairman of Washington's Utilities and Transportation Commission. "We did the hard work early, so these targets will be less onerous." 
Credit: By Amy Harder and Alicia Mundy 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Energy policy; 
Carbon dioxide; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Coal-fired power plants; 

Emissions control; Environmental regulations 
Location  Kentucky; United States--US  
Company / organization  Name:  Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS:  924110  

Classification  1540: Pollution control  
1520: Energy policy  
9190: United States  
4310: Regulation  
Title  U.S. News: EPA Rules: Tough For Some States, Easier for Others  
Author  Harder, Amy; Mundy, Alicia  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.4  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Jun 4, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1531853497  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1531853497?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 306 of 376 


The New Anti-Coal Rules Will Cut Jobs and Hurt the Economy 
Barrasso, John; Heitkamp, Heidi.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]03 June 2014: A.13. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=The+New+Anti­Coal+Rules+Will+Cut+Jobs+and+Hurt+the+Economy&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2014-06­03&volume=&issue=&spage=A.13&au=Barrasso%2C+John%3BHeitkamp%2C+Heidi&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Recent studies have estimated that this rule would lead to certain job losses, with one study by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce estimating that an aggressive carbon policy would eliminate hundreds of thousands of jobs by forcing coal-fired power plants to shut down. 

Full text 
On Monday, the Obama administration unveiled new regulations to restrict the amount of carbon dioxide produced by existing power plants. While we agree that America needs to balance energy needs with environmental concerns, the timing of this effort could hardly be worse for the struggling U.S. economy. 
We learned just last week that the economy is shrinking for the first time since 2011. America's labor-force participation remains low. Millions of Americans continue to have difficulty finding good jobs. These excessive new regulations will likely force power plants to close, putting Americans out of work. 
The administration repeatedly promised to deliver regulatory certainty and give states "flexibility" if they meet the tough new standards. The fact is that states have to present their plans to the Environmental Protection Agency for final approval. If the EPA doesn't approve the state plan, the agency could impose its requirements on the state. 
The 645-page rule would give states a few options to reduce emissions. Those options are still very restrictive and will take away good jobs, increase energy costs and hurt the economy. 
EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy said that the agency's regulations will decrease energy costs by 8% by 2030. We remain skeptical and believe that consumers will see higher rates. Businesses, large and small, and manufacturers will have to pay much more for their electricity; these increased prices will be absorbed or passed on and will further hurt the economy. 
In states that already require higher portions of renewable fuels, electricity costs are on average 30% higher than in other states. Recent studies have estimated that this rule would lead to certain job losses, with one study by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce estimating that an aggressive carbon policy would eliminate hundreds of thousands of jobs by forcing coal-fired power plants to shut down. This does not even begin to address capacity and reliability issues that the administration all too often brushes aside. 
Coal-fired power plants will be especially hard hit, disproportionately hurting coal-producing states like Wyoming, North Dakota, Pennsylvania and Montana. 
When excessive Washington red tape closes a power plant or a coal mine in a small community, those jobs aren't the only ones to go. The lost revenue base hurts public schools, police and busing services for seniors who can't drive. Teachers, laborers and doctors move away, looking for a better chance somewhere else. Small businesses don't have enough customers, so they shut down -- the town withers away. 
The pain is felt locally, but America's environmental policies must reflect the fact that carbon dioxide is produced globally. The U.S. share of carbon-dioxide emissions has been dropping for more than a decade. Meanwhile, emissions in developing countries have soared. China's have increased by 173% from 1998 to 2011. 
These new EPA policies will produce minimal environmental benefits unless other countries also aggressively reduce emissions, to the detriment of their economies. That is unlikely in the near term. 
While working together in the Senate, we have consistently supported policies that will help the nation develop energy as clean as it can, as fast as it can. As representatives of energy-producing states, we have also seen firsthand that the country and the economy cannot function without coal and other fossil fuels. 
The American people must be allowed to be part of this discussion. We have heard overwhelmingly from people in Wyoming and North Dakota that they don't support extreme and expensive regulations. 
During the president's first term, Congress rejected, on a bipartisan basis, a national energy tax. These new regulations will in effect impose a national energy tax -- but without the input of Americans or their representatives. 
We would invite President Obama and EPA Administrator McCarthy to come out to Wyoming and back to North Dakota to see the real-world effects these policies have on jobs, families and communities. We want them to meet the people and go to the communities that will be hurt by these regulations. We also want them to see how states like ours are balancing the pristine beauty of their environment with the need for a vibrant economy. 
The president has challenged the world and every American to spend more and regulate more to combat climate change. We think that it's a debate worth engaging in and that the president should bring his proposal to Congress. Our constituents, at a minimum, deserve this consideration. 
Mr. Barrasso, a Republican, is the junior senator from Wyoming, and Ms. Heitkamp, a member of the North Dakota Democratic-Nonpartisan League Party, is the junior senator from North Dakota. 
Credit: By John Barrasso and Heidi Heitkamp 

(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Coal-fired power plants; Emissions; Energy policy; Environmental protection; Carbon; Industrial plant emissions; Economic impact  
Location  United States--US  
People  McCarthy, Gina  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 924110;  
Name: NAICS:  US Chamber of Commerce 813910  
Classification  9190: United States 1520: Energy policy 1540: Pollution control 1110: Economic conditions & forecasts  
Title  The New Anti-Coal Rules Will Cut Jobs and Hurt the Economy  
Author  Barrasso, John; Heitkamp, Heidi  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.13  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Jun 3, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  

Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1531497494  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1531497494?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 307 of 376 


U.S. News: EPA Plan Stokes Posturing In the Mid-Term Elections 
Peterson, Kristina; Epstein, Reid J.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]03 June 2014: A.4. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+EPA+Plan+Stokes+Posturing+In+the+Mid­Term+Elections&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2014-06­03&volume=&issue=&spage=A.4&au=Peterson%2C+Kristina%3BEpstein%2C+Reid+J&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
"When I'm in the U.S. Senate, I will fiercely oppose the president's attack on Kentucky's coal industry, because protecting our jobs will be my No. 1 priority," said Democrat Alison Lundergan Grimes, the Kentucky secretary of state, who is challenging Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R., Ky.) Even in areas less dominated by coal, vulnerable Democrats criticized Mr. Obama for acting without congressional approval to advance his agenda. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- President Barack Obama's plan to reduce carbon emissions is escalating environmental policy fights in energy-rich states, home to many of the marquee races that could determine which party controls the Senate after November's elections. 
Democrats running in conservative-leaning states in Appalachia and other energy-producing areas quickly distanced themselves from the draft rule released Monday by the Environmental Protection Agency. The proposal aims to reduce carbon emissions from fossil fuel-fired power plants by an average of 30% from 2005 levels by 2030. 
"When I'm in the U.S. Senate, I will fiercely oppose the president's attack on Kentucky's coal industry, because protecting our jobs will be my No. 1 priority," said Democrat Alison Lundergan Grimes, the Kentucky secretary of state, who is challenging Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R., Ky.) 
Even in areas less dominated by coal, vulnerable Democrats criticized Mr. Obama for acting without congressional approval to advance his agenda. They sought to do so carefully to avoid alienating the party's base, which generally supports efforts to combat climate change. 
Republicans labeled the proposed rule a job-killing reward to his environmental donors and a new "energy tax" that would drive up electricity prices. "The president's plan is nuts," House Speaker John Boehner (R., Ohio) said in a statement, reflecting a GOP consensus that the rule would inhibit job creation and economic growth. 
President Barack Obama disagreed, saying: "It provides a huge incentive for states and consumers to become more energy efficient." 
The plan elicited the most heated attacks in Appalachian states, including Kentucky and in West Virginia. But even when Democrats criticized the president's plan, Republicans worked to tie their rivals to Mr. Obama. 
Democratic state Secretary of State Natalie Tennant, who is running to replace the retiring Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D., W.Va.), vowed to work to block the plan. Her GOP rival, Rep. Shelley Moore Capito, who also opposes the proposed regulations, stressed Ms. Tennant's past support for the president in a call with reporters Monday. "We very much differ in terms of that," she said. 
Other Democrats in conservative-leaning states proposed taking legislative action to block the EPA from implementing the rule. Rep. Nick Rahall (D., W.Va.), running for re­election in a conservative-leaning district, said he would introduce a bill aimed at scuttling the proposal and preventing the government from issuing any similar rules without congressional approval for at least five years. "The Obama administration has got it wrong, once again," Mr. Rahall said. 
The EPA proposal also is expected to stoke efforts by vulnerable Democrats to distance themselves from the president in other battleground Senate states, including Alaska and Louisiana. "While it is important to reduce carbon in the atmosphere, this should not be achieved by EPA regulations," said Sen. Mary Landrieu, a Louisiana Democrat running for re-election. 
Some Democrats in tight races sought to avoid antagonizing the party's base voters, who are particularly important in midterm elections, when turnout is often lower. In North Carolina, Democratic Sen. Kay Hagan praised the EPA during a speech to local environmental activists last week, saying the agency's "ability to responsibly regulate greenhouse gas emissions is key to protecting our environment." Her calculus is that voters will welcome an environmental push after coal ash spilled into the state's Dan River in February. 
Still, Ms. Hagan, who is being challenged by North Carolina Republican state House speaker Thom Tillis, said she expected to ask for changes after reviewing the rule. 
Democrats in secure seats hailed what they called a landmark step in combating global warming. "Thank goodness the president refuses to be bullied by those who have their heads in the sand, and whose obstruction is leading us off the climate change cliff," said Sen. Barbara Boxer (D., Calif.). 
Credit: By Kristina Peterson and Reid J. Epstein 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Emissions control; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Voter behavior; 

Coal industry; 

State elections; 
Political campaigns; 
Energy policy; 
Congressional elections 


Location  Kentucky; Appalachia; United States--US  
People  Obama, Barack; Rahall, Nick J II; McConnell, Mitch; Grimes, Alison Lundergan  
Company / organization  Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS: 924110  
Classification  9190: United States  
1210: Politics & political behavior  
1520: Energy policy  
Title  U.S. News: EPA Plan Stokes Posturing In the Mid-Term Elections  
Author  Peterson, Kristina; Epstein, Reid J  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.4  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Jun 3, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1531422290  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1531422290?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 308 of 376 


U.S. News: Utilities Size Up Proposed Carbon Limits --- Coal Producers Find Relief in Certain Elements of the EPA's Plan, but Lobbying Groups Warn of Higher Electricity Costs 
Harder, Amy; Sweet, Cassandra.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]03 June 2014: A.4. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+Utilities+Size+Up+Proposed+Carbon+Limits+--­+Coal+Producers+Find+Relief+in+Certain+Elements+of+the+EPA%27s+Plan%2C+but+Lobbying+Groups+Warn+of+Higher+Electricity+Costs&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00 06-03&volume=&issue=&spage=A.4&au=Harder%2C+Amy%3BSweet%2C+Cassandra&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Electric companies that have made big cuts in their emissions in recent years but still have heavy concentrations of coal-fired power plants include American Electric Power, Duke Energy Corp., of Charlotte, N.C., and Atlanta-based Southern Co. "No one is doing more than Southern Co. to address CO2," said Tom Fanning, chief executive of that company, which says it has slashed emissions by 26% during the past few years. 

Full Text 
New federal limits on greenhouse-gas emissions would force sweeping changes in the U.S. electric system but wouldn't deliver the knockout blow to coal that mining companies and some power producers had feared. 
The proposed caps on carbon emissions, unveiled by the Environmental Protection Agency on Monday, give both states and utilities credit for reductions they already have made, including moving from coal to more natural gas and deploying renewable energy. Burning gas produces less carbon than coal, and natural gas has become cheap and plentiful during the past few years because of the U.S. energy boom. 
The EPA's plan, part of President Barack Obama's broader effort to combat climate change, also allows states to count measures like energy-efficiency programs to meet a nationwide goal of reducing 2005 greenhouse-gas emission levels by an average of 25% by 2020 and 30% by 2030. 
Scott Segal of Bracewell & Giuliani LLP in Washington, D.C., who lobbies on behalf of coal-fired power plants, said he opposes the carbon plan but added that the rule "could have been a whole lot worse." 
The proposal is so complex that companies said they were trying to sort out the potential impacts, which are likely to vary widely by region. Coal consumption is highest in the Midwest, the Ohio Valley and the Southeast, including Florida and Georgia, and coal-burning states tend to have lower electricity prices. 
American Electric Power Co. of Columbus, Ohio, said it is concerned that in many states where it operates, carbon cuts could be more than 30% by 2030. "Climate change is a global issue, and some states should not bear a disproportionate share of the cost of U.S. action to cut emissions," a spokeswoman said. 
Obama administration officials stressed they were giving states flexibility both in how the states and utilities meet the goals and when they must come up with a plan, which for some states could be as long as three years from next summer, when the rule becomes final. 
Perhaps the biggest concession to the industry was the EPA's use of the 2005 baseline for the cuts. Carbon emissions have dropped 14% since that year, so the overall reduction sought is smaller than it would have been if the EPA had used a more-recent baseline year, as coal and utility executives had feared. "We aren't sure how that happened, but it's a big relief," said a coal-industry lobbyist. 
The EPA said 2005 is an international benchmark year for many statistics including comparing pollution. 
Building up to Monday's announcement, senior White House officials reached out extensively to the utility industry and other stakeholders, including labor unions and environmental groups. White House senior adviser John Podesta spent two days last week calling utilities, whose share prices barely moved Monday, and met with coal-mining labor groups, according to a White House official. 
But the proposal will face challenges in court from both the industry and some states. A spokeswoman for Michigan Attorney General Bill Schuette, a Republican, said Monday that the state, which has challenged the EPA on other rules, may take legal action against the plan. 
Industry groups that oppose the administration push to cut greenhouse gases warned the rule would raise the cost of electricity, hurting consumers and the economy. 
"This proposal may adversely impact the affordability and reliability of electricity supply to major industrial consumers, which will harm workers, jobs and further impede the postrecession growth of American manufacturing," said Thomas Gibson, president of the American Iron and Steel Institute trade group. 
The overall costs of the plan remain hotly debated. The administration estimates that utilities would spend as much as $8.8 billion a year to comply with the rule, based on complex assumptions including using more natural gas as a baseload fuel. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce says the rule would cost the economy $50 billion a year. 
The utility industry accounts for about one-third of total U.S. carbon emissions, according to the EPA, with coal making up most of that share. Coal use has declined from a decade ago, but the fuel still produced 39% of the nation's electricity last year, according to federal tallies. Plants fired by natural gas produced about 27%, nuclear plants generated 19%, and renewables including hydro, wind and solar produced 13%. 
Electric companies that have made big cuts in their emissions in recent years but still have heavy concentrations of coal-fired power plants include American Electric Power, Duke Energy Corp., of Charlotte, N.C., and Atlanta-based Southern Co. 
"No one is doing more than Southern Co. to address CO2," said Tom Fanning, chief executive of that company, which says it has slashed emissions by 26% during the past few years. 
The EPA has set different carbon reduction standards for each state based on what the agency believes is achievable. West Virginia must have a rate of 1,620 pounds of carbon dioxide emitted per megawatt hour of electricity by 2030, meaning it must cut its carbon by 19.7% during that time. That is a relatively low percentage compared with Colorado, which must cut emissions by 35.3% by 2030, and Louisiana, which must reduce carbon emissions by 39.7% over that period. 
John W. Miller, Alicia Mundy and Ted Mann contributed to this article. 
Credit: By Amy Harder and Cassandra Sweet 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Environmental protection; 
Carbon offsets; 

Industrial plant emissions; 

Electricity distribution; 
Coal-fired power plants; 
Emissions control; 
Electric utilities; 

Energy policy 


Location 	United States--US; Ohio Valley 
People 	Obama, Barack 
Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 

NAICS: 924110; 

Name: Bracewell & Giuliani LLP NAICS: 541110 
Classification 	9190: United States 

8340: Electric, water & gas utilities 

1520: Energy policy 

1540: Pollution control 


Title 	U.S. News: Utilities Size Up Proposed Carbon Limits --- Coal Producers Find Relief in Certain 
Elements of the EPA's Plan, but Lobbying Groups Warn of Higher Electricity Costs 

Author 	Harder, Amy; Sweet, Cassandra 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.4 
Publication year 	2014 
Publication date 	Jun 3, 2014 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 	00999660 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1531422282  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1531422282?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 309 of 376 


Carbon-Income Inequality 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]03 June 2014: A.12. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Carbon­Income+Inequality&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2014-06­03&volume=&issue=&spage=A.12&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The 645-page rule is targeted at the 1,000 or so U.S. fossil fuel power plants, but it more or less orders states to adopt cap and trade or a carbon tax. Based on the EPA's own carbon accounting, shutting down every coal-fired power plant tomorrow and replacing them with zero-carbon sources would reduce the Earth's temperature by about one-twentieth of a degree Fahrenheit in a hundred years. 

Full Text 
President Obama vowed last year that he wouldn't wait on Congress to bless his anticarbon agenda, and the rule his Environmental Protection Agency proposed on Monday is equal to that promise. The agency is bidding to transform and nationalize U.S. energy the way ObamaCare is doing to medicine, but in this case without even the pretense of democratic consent. 
The EPA's goal is to cut carbon emissions by 30% by 2030 from near-peak 2005 levels, which will inevitably raise the price of electricity and thus all other goods down the energy chain. The 645-page rule is targeted at the 1,000 or so U.S. fossil fuel power plants, but it more or less orders states to adopt cap and trade or a carbon tax. 
A Democratic Congress debated and rejected this anticarbon program in 2010, and there isn't a chance it could get 50 Senate votes now. But no matter, the EPA claims the authority for this sweeping power grab by pointing to an obscure clause of the 1970 Clean Air Act called Section 111(d) that runs merely a few hundred words and historically has been applied only to minor pollutants, not the entire economy. 
The new rule is unprecedented because EPA is supposed to regulate "inside the fenceline," meaning that its command-and-control powers are limited to individual energy generator sources. The agency can tell America's 3,000 or so fossil-fuel power units to install on-site technology like scrubbers to reduce pollution, but not beyond. Now the agency is taking a "systems-based approach" that usurps state responsibilities in order to move electricity production away first from coal and later natural gas. 
The EPA is claiming states can choose whatever methods they like to meet the carbon targets, from shuttering plants to installing more green sources like wind and solar. But beware of the Obama EPA bearing gifts. The agency recently rejected state plans to reduce regional haze before they are even formally proposed and revoked permits it had previously approved. 
The EPA also claims that by some miracle the costs of this will be negligible, or even raise GDP, but it is impossible to raise the price of carbon energy without also raising costs across the economy. The costs will ultimately flow to consumers and businesses. 
As an alternative to a carbon tax, some states will force-feed wind, solar and other renewables that are both more expensive and less reliable than fossil fuels. Consumers may not realize how these regulations will affect their daily lives. Groups like the Natural Resources Defense Council and the Brookings Institution support a policy known as "direct load control" that would manage when you are allowed to run the air conditioner or washing machine. 
The EPA claims to be targeting "polluters," but the government is essentially creating an artificial scarcity in carbon energy. Scarcities mean higher prices, which will hit the poor far harder than they will the anticarbon crusaders who live in Pacific Heights. The lowest 10% of earners pay three times as much as a share of their income for electricity compared to the middle class. If you want more inequality, this is an ideal way to ensure it. 
The EPA plan will also redistribute income from economically successful states to those that have already needlessly raised their energy costs. The New England and California cap-and-trade programs will get a boost, while the new rule punishes the regions that rely most on fossil fuels and manufacturing: the South, Ohio River Valley and mid-Atlantic. Think of it as a transfer from Austin to Sacramento. 
In eight short years this Administration will have accomplished the largest transformation of the U.S. power system since the 1930s. As recently as 2007, cheap coal accounted for more than half of U.S. net generation but has now plunged to 37% and is trending down. Some of this is due to the natural gas boom, but the EPA rule will finish the job. 
Notably, these plant retirements may endanger the reliability of the electrical grid. This winter's cold snap showed that traditional power is essential to keeping the lights and heat on, and the risk of rolling blackouts is real as the EPA re-engineers the system. 
The irony is that all the damage will do nothing for climate change. Based on the EPA's own carbon accounting, shutting down every coal-fired power plant tomorrow and replacing them with zero-carbon sources would reduce the Earth's temperature by about one-twentieth of a degree Fahrenheit in a hundred years. 
Of the 32.6 billion metric tons of carbon the global economy threw off in 2011, the U.S. accounted for 5.5 billion. Mr. Obama's logic seems to be that the U.S. should first set a moral example by imposing costs that reduce our prosperity. This will then inspire China (8.7 billion tons), which produces and consumes nearly as much coal as the rest of the world combined, to do the same to its 300 million people who still live on pennies a day. Good luck persuading Xi Jinping. 
The EPA's legal afflatus means that its carbon rule will be litigated for years, and we hope the states take the lead. As recently as Monday in Bond v. U.S., the Supreme Court held that the federal government can only make "a stark intrusion into traditional state authority" with "a clear statement of that purpose." The Congresses that passed the 
vague statutory language of the Clean Air Act and its 1990 amendments clearly never intended to endorse this EPA gambit. 
In the American system, legislative inaction does not create a vacuum that the executive is entitled to fill. Almost all economic and human activity has some carbon cost, and the huge indirect tax and wealth redistribution scheme that the EPA is imposing by fiat will profoundly touch every American. Voters should at least have a say and know the price they will pay before ceding so much power to regulators. 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Fossil fuels; Energy policy; Carbon; Environmental tax; Low income groups; Editorials -- Energy policy  
Location  United States--US  
People  Obama, Barack  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 924110;  
Name: NAICS:  Natural Resources Defense Council 813312;  
Name: NAICS:  Congress 921120  
Classification  9190: United States 4310: Regulation 4210: Institutional taxation 1520: Energy policy  
Title  Carbon-Income Inequality  
Author  Anonymous  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.12  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Jun 3, 2014  
column  REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  

Document type  Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  1531422260  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1531422260?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 310 of 376 


EPA Sets Big Cuts For Power Emissions 
Harder, Amy; Epstein, Reid J; Peterson, Kristina.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]02 June 2014: A.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=EPA+Sets+Big+Cuts+For+Power+Emissions&title=Wall+Street+Journal 06­02&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Harder%2C+Amy%3BEpstein%2C+Reid+J%3BPeterson%2C+Kristina&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=inf 

Abstract 
The Environmental Protection Agency will propose mandating power plants cut U.S. carbon-dioxide emissions 30% by 2030 from levels of 25 years earlier, according to people briefed on the rule, an ambitious target that marks the first-ever attempt at limiting such pollution. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- The Environmental Protection Agency will propose mandating power plants cut U.S. carbon-dioxide emissions 30% by 2030 from levels of 25 years earlier, according to people briefed on the rule, an ambitious target that marks the first-ever attempt at limiting such pollution. 
The rule-making proposal, to be unveiled Monday, sets in motion the main piece of President Barack Obama's climate-change agenda and is designed to give states and power companies flexibility in reaching the target. But it also will face political resistance and become fodder in midterm congressional races, particularly in energy-producing states, and is destined to trigger lawsuits from states and industry that oppose it. 
The rule would affect hundreds of fossil-fuel power plants -- hitting the nation's roughly 600 coal-fired plants the hardest. The carbon framework seeks to strike a balance between what environmentalists want -- an ambitious overall target -- with what the utility industry wants -- flexibility, a long compliance timeline and an earlier base-year calculation from which to meet the goal. Carbon emissions have dropped since 2005, making the overall reduction smaller when compared with recent years. 
For the president, the rule is a major element of his attempt to secure a second-term legacy. While Mr. Obama is expected to remain out of the spotlight when the EPA unveils the rule Monday, he plans to join a conference call with the American Lung Association, casting the rule as needed to protect public health as well as to reduce the carbon emissions that scientists say contribute to climate change. 
The rule, scheduled to be completed a year from now, will give flexibility to the states, which must implement them and submit compliance plans to the EPA by June 2016. States can decide how to meet the reductions, including joining or creating new cap-and-trade programs -- which allow companies to trade allowances or credits for emissions -­deploying more renewable energy or ramping up energy-efficiency technologies. 
Each state will have different reduction standards, and the national average will be 25% by 2020 and 30% by 2030, people familiar with the proposal said. Additional details about the rule, including the percentage reduction for each state, and other particulars on how it would work, weren't available. 
"EPA will release its proposed carbon pollution reduction rule on Monday," agency spokesman Tom Reynolds said, offering no further comment until then. 
Although the Obama administration has reached out to both companies and environmental groups to broadly lay out the rulemaking's goals, it in recent days tried to keep the proposal's details quiet in the run-up to Monday's announcement. Environmental groups and energy-industry officials said briefings over the weekend were postponed or pushed back. 
The rule gives states and companies as many as 15 years to comply, which is more time than some environmental groups had wanted, and a base year favored by utility companies. 
"We're already voluntarily reducing carbon emissions 14% based on 2005 baseline, so optimistically you could say we're headed in the right direction," said Brian Wolff, senior vice president at the Edison Electric Institute, a trade group representing the nation's investor-owned utilities. "No. 1 with a rule like this is how the companies can minimize costs to customers." 
Frances Beinecke, president of the Natural Resources Defense Council, praised the proposal. "The new carbon pollution standards will be good for our health, good for our economy and good for our children and all future generations," Ms. Beinecke said in a statement. 
EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy is announcing the proposed rule at the agency's headquarters in Washington Monday. The EPA is working on a parallel carbon standard for power plants not yet built, and in 2009, the administration finalized rules regulating carbon emissions from the nation's transportation sector. 
"As President, and as a parent, I refuse to condemn our children to a planet that's beyond fixing," Mr. Obama said in his radio address Saturday. "The shift to a cleaner energy economy won't happen overnight, and it will require tough choices along the way." 
The proposal is an explosive point of debate in some Senate and House races, particularly in some energy-producing states where Democrats are vulnerable. Rep. Nick Rahall (D., W.Va.), who is seeking re-election, said he didn't think the rule's impact on coal-state Democrats is the White House's top priority. 
"I'm sure that's not No. 1 in their minds. Probably, the president's legacy is No. 1," said Mr. Rahall, who opposes additional restrictions on coal plants. 
Republicans are using the proposed rule to assert that Democrats will raise energy costs and kill jobs, and that carbon restrictions are futile in the absence of similar action by China and other large polluting nations. 
While Democrats are more vocal than Republicans in saying that man-made climate change is a problem, some in energy-producing states are wary of backing a government response. Democratic Senate candidates Natalie Tennant in West Virginia and Alison Lundergan Grimes in Kentucky oppose the rule and plan to spend the week showing their support for coal jobs. 
"I will fight President Obama and anyone else who tries to undermine our coal jobs," Ms. Tennant said in a statement. 
On Sunday, Mr. Obama called a group of Senate and House Democrats to thank them for their support of the proposal. 
National Democrats say the EPA proposal could energize base voters -- in particular young people -- and also some of the party's top donors, such as billionaire environmentalist Tom Steyer, who is backing Democratic Senate candidates. 
"It's not going to be helpful in Kentucky or West Virginia," Rep. John Yarmuth (D., Ky.) said. "In terms of being able to do something to energize young people [in other states], this has the potential to do that for our side." 
Ms. Grimes's campaign said the Democrat will try to link her opponent, Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R., Ky.), to the president, saying the longtime lawmaker is responsible for a decline in coal-industry jobs because he has failed to stop the federal government from its "war on coal." 
Mr. McConnell will introduce legislation this week that would block the proposed rule. The effort stands virtually no chance of advancing. 
Alicia Mundy contributed to this article. 
Credit: By Amy Harder, Reid J. Epstein and Kristina Peterson 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Rules; 

Climate change; 
Emissions control; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Power plants 


Location 	United States--US 
Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 

NAICS: 924110 


Classification 	9190: United States 

4310: Regulation 


Title 	EPA Sets Big Cuts For Power Emissions 
Author 	Harder, Amy; Epstein, Reid J; Peterson, Kristina 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.1 
Publication year 	2014 
Publication date 	Jun 2, 2014 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 	00999660 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1530917160  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1530917160?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 311 of 376 


U.S. News: EPA's Carbon Rule to Spark Lawsuits 
Kendall, Brent; Mundy, Alicia.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]30 May 2014: A.4. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+EPA%27s+Carbon+Rule+to+Spark+Lawsuits&title=Wa 05-30&volume=&issue=&spage=A.4&au=Kendall%2C+Brent%3BMundy%2C+Alicia&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The EPA says it has only used the section, called 111(d), to regulate five sources of pollutants since it was enacted in 1970 -- and none on the scale of CO2, a major greenhouse gas. Because the provision has been invoked so rarely, courts have had little opportunity to weigh in on it, creating the unusual circumstance in which potential challengers to the carbon rules would be litigating largely on a blank slate against the EPA. 

Full Text 
The expected legal battle over the Obama administration's coming limits on carbon emissions from existing power plants could provide a rarity for environmental litigation: a case for which there is scant court precedent. 
The Environmental Protection Agency is turning to a little-used provision of the Clean Air Act for its new rules, because carbon dioxide isn't regulated under major programs that address air pollutants. The EPA says it has only used the section, called 111(d), to regulate five sources of pollutants since it was enacted in 1970 -- and none on the scale of CO2, a major greenhouse gas. 
Because the provision has been invoked so rarely, courts have had little opportunity to weigh in on it, creating the unusual circumstance in which potential challengers to the carbon rules would be litigating largely on a blank slate against the EPA. The Clean Air Act provision gives the agency authority to regulate pollutants emitted by facilities already in operation, but the expected lawsuits from states and industry could test how far a president can go in using the long-standing air-pollution law to try to address climate change. 
The EPA regulations, which will be proposed Monday, "are in many ways unprecedented, so it will attract a challenge to its core," said Jody Freeman, a Harvard University law professor and former adviser to President Barack Obama on energy and climate issues. 
The administration's approach is expected to generate stiff legal pushback from industry groups and states such as West Virginia, Oklahoma, North Dakota, Alaska and Texas, according to lawyers familiar with the matter. 
Potential challengers face hurdles in court. Under long-standing legal principles, courts give deference to administrative agencies like the EPA as long as they don't regulate in an arbitrary and capricious manner. 
The looming fights also come amid a legal winning streak for the EPA, in which courts have upheld an array of agency actions. The Supreme Court last month revived agency regulations that curbed power-plant emissions blowing across state lines. And a key appeals court has ruled for the EPA on several occasions in recent months. Among the decisions, it upheld EPA regulations of mercury emissions from power plants. 
The same court previously upheld the EPA's 2009 conclusion that CO2 and other greenhouse gases pose a danger to public health, and it upheld subsequent rules on automobile emissions. 
The CO2 rules expected to be announced Monday will set emissions benchmarks and give the states flexibility in meeting them -- a partnership mandated by the Clean Air Act. The administration plans to allow states to use cap-and-trade systems, renewable energy and other measures to meet goals for reducing power plants' emissions. 
An EPA spokesman declined to comment on the legal underpinnings of the coming regulations, but an informational video posted on the agency's website has top officials saying Congress wrote Section 111(d) broadly, with the intention of giving the EPA leeway to address air-pollution problems not covered by other Clean Air Act programs. 
The section "gives us room to be creative, innovative and flexible as we think about how to design a cost-effective program to reduce carbon pollution from existing power plants," said Janet McCabe, an acting EPA assistant administrator, in the video. 
Legal objections from industry are likely to center on the EPA's expected interpretation that it can set pollution standards across fleets of power plants, instead of directing individual plants to meet the standard by installing pollution technology or taking other steps to cut emissions, said Jeff Holmstead, an attorney who represents coal-industry interests at Bracewell & Giuliani LLP. 
Mr. Holmstead, a former EPA assistant administrator under President George W. Bush, said that because there is so little precedent, the EPA is going to be "as creative as possible," but he noted that it "creates more openings" for industry and states to challenge the agency in court. 
Washington environmental lawyer Sean Donahue said the lack of precedent could cut in the EPA's favor: "There's more room to make legal arguments because the courts haven't specified what the statute means and doesn't mean, but it also leaves more room for the agency's judgment." 
While the specific bounds of the EPA's authority to regulate power plants' carbon emissions haven't been tested in court, a 2011 Supreme Court opinion said the agency had the power to take action to curb emissions. 
Amy Harder contributed to this article. 
Credit: By Brent Kendall and Alicia Mundy 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Power plants;  
Clean Air Act-US;  
Litigation;  
Environmental regulations;  
Emissions control  
Location  United States--US  
Company / organization  Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS: 924110  
Classification  9190: United States  
4330: Litigation  
1540: Pollution control  
Title  U.S. News: EPA's Carbon Rule to Spark Lawsuits  
Author  Kendall, Brent; Mundy, Alicia  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.4  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  May 30, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1530278551  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1530278551?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 312 of 376 


EPA Set To Unveil Climate Proposal 
Harder, Amy.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]27 May 2014: A.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=EPA+Set+To+Unveil+Climate+Proposal&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn 05-27&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Harder%2C+Amy&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
"The impact will not only be to greatly increase electricity rates, putting U.S. manufacturing at a competitive disadvantage, but [also to] jeopardize reliability of the nation's electric grid," said Hal Quinn, president and chief executive of the National Mining Association, a trade group representing coal-mining companies including Alpha Natural Resources LLC, Arch Coal Inc., and Peabody Energy Corp. Aware of the controversy, one person familiar with the drafting of the rule said it would probably use the phrase "budget program," instead of the more politically charged "cap-and-trade," even though it will mean the same thing. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration will next week unveil a cornerstone of its climate-change initiative with a proposed rule aimed at allowing states to use cap-and­trade systems, renewable energy and other measures to meet aggressive goals for reducing carbon emissions by existing power plants. 
Energy companies and others affected by the proposal will be watching for key details, including the percentage by which companies and states must reduce carbon emissions, which is expected to be proposed in a range instead of a single number. The baseline year against which those reductions are calculated will also be closely monitored. 
But the proposal is designed to give states, which will administer the regulations, flexibility to meet the benchmarks, as opposed to placing emissions limits on individual plants, according to people familiar with the Environmental Protection Agency's work on the rule. 
Central to the strategy of flexibility: the option to include a cap-and-trade component where a limit is set on emissions and companies can trade allowances or credits for emissions as a way of staying under different benchmarks the EPA sets for each state. Power-plant operators could trade emissions credits or use other offsets in the power sector, such as renewable energy or energy-efficiency programs, to meet the target. 
The proposed rule is "going to enable states to move forward in a way that works best for them with the energy resources they have," said Dan Utech, special assistant to Mr. Obama for energy and climate issues. 
Still, the June 2 release is likely to reverberate across the nation's political, legal and environmental policy landscape as competing interests debate the economic cost and the science of climate change. The EPA is scheduled to complete the rule by June 2015, and states must submit their implementation plans the following year, according to the timeline Mr. Obama set last summer. The likelihood of lawsuits and political opposition could upend this schedule. 
This week, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce is expected to release a report estimating how much the EPA proposal could cost the U.S. economy, including its potential impact on gross domestic product and jobs. 
The proposed rule would affect hundreds of power plants nationwide and is expected to be challenging for utilities with a large number of coal-fired generators, which the EPA says account for about one-third of U.S. greenhouse-gas emissions. Burning coal produces more carbon dioxide than oil and natural gas, but it's also the cheapest and most plentiful source for power, providing 40% of the nation's electricity. 
Politicians from coal-producing states are likely to fight the proposal, as are power companies that burn coal and business groups that say the rule could increase costs. The proposed regulation could also create political difficulties for Democratic candidates running this year, including incumbents Rep. Nick Rahall of West Virginia, a top coal-producing state, and Sen. Kay Hagan of North Carolina, where energy already has emerged as a campaign issue. 
Congressional Republicans and conservative groups have criticized cap-and-trade policies as "cap-and-tax," saying that if companies have to pay for emissions allowances, it amounts to a hidden tax on them, which could be passed to customers. 
"The impact will not only be to greatly increase electricity rates, putting U.S. manufacturing at a competitive disadvantage, but [also to] jeopardize reliability of the nation's electric grid," said Hal Quinn, president and chief executive of the National Mining Association, a trade group representing coal-mining companies including Alpha Natural Resources LLC, Arch Coal Inc., and Peabody Energy Corp. 
Aware of the controversy, one person familiar with the drafting of the rule said it would probably use the phrase "budget program," instead of the more politically charged "cap­and-trade," even though it will mean the same thing. 
Aware of the political perils, last week 45 senators, including several Democrats up for re-election, sent a letter to EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy urging her to double the amount of time allowed for public comments, from two months to four. 
In public speeches and in meetings with power-plant operators, state officials and environmental groups over the past year, Ms. McCarthy has emphasized that the rule will provide compliance flexibility for states and utilities. 
Carol Browner, a former top energy and climate adviser to Mr. Obama and a former EPA administrator, said the rule would likely allow states and companies to join existing cap­and-trade systems, such as those used in California or the Northeast, or create new ones. 
"For some companies and states, a trading program may make the most sense," said Ms. Browner, adding that they may choose to "create some new regional" trading systems in order to meet the carbon emissions standard set by EPA. 
Some utilities supported cap-and-trade legislation that failed in Congress a few years ago because it was the most flexible way to cut emissions. The House of Representatives in 2009, controlled by Democrats at the time, passed cap-and-trade legislation but it ended up dying in the Senate in 2010 where criticism gained traction and scuttled the initiative even though Democrats were in the majority. 
Nick Akins, CEO of American Electric Power Co., whose generating capacity throughout the Midwest is roughly 60% coal, said in an interview that his company supported that bill because "it was a tradable activity that could occur that really answered the greenhouse-gas question in a cost-effective manner." 
The new Obama initiative could also garner support from the company. "Any approach that includes flexibility, such as cap and trade, would be better than a prescriptive limit on unit emissions," said AEP spokeswoman Melissa McHenry. "But we'd have to see the approach before we could say whether or not we'd support it." 
Experts representing coal interests and environmental groups said the regulation would likely reflect suggestions from a report by environmental advocacy group Natural Resources Defense Council. "The point of our analysis is to emphasize flexibility," said David Doniger, policy director of NRDC's climate center. "EPA sets the benchmark, but the states develop the plans." 
Alicia Mundy contributed to this article. 
(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: New Carbon Standards: A Bold Vision or Costly Folly?" -- WSJ June 10, 2014) 
Credit: By Amy Harder 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Emissions trading; 

Environmental protection; 
Energy policy; 
Coal industry; 

Power plants; 
Climate change 


Location 	California 
People 	Utech, Dan 
Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 

NAICS: 924110; 

Name: US Chamber of Commerce NAICS: 813910 
Classification 	9190: United States 

1520: Energy policy 


Title 	EPA Set To Unveil Climate Proposal 
Author 	Harder, Amy 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.1 
Publication year 	2014 
Publication date 	May 27, 2014 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1528455082  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1528455082?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 313 of 376 


The Experts: Insights From Our Online Panel 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]19 May 2014: R.7. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=The+Experts%3A+Insights+From+Our+Online+Panel&title=Wall+Stree 05-19&volume=&issue=&spage=R.7&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Robert Rapier, chief technology officer, executive vice president, Merica International It's the Well Casings During the shale-gas drilling process, the main issue of concern, according to most experts, is the integrity of the well casing. Do you need to wash the dishes right after dinner, or would you derive nerdy enjoyment from setting up a "home energy manager" that lets you run your appliances later at night when energy is cheaper? -- Mark Thurber, associate director, Energy and Sustainable Development, Stanford University Let People See Consumption in Real Time Families live in a wide range of climates with different patterns of energy use. 

Full Text 
Strong opinions about hydraulic fracturing, or "fracking," one of the most hotly contested energy issues today, are common among camps on both sides of the debate. So are certain misconceptions. To help identify and clarify some of the misunderstandings about fracking, we turned to The Experts, an exclusive group of industry and thought leaders who discuss topics raised in the Journal Reports. We also asked The Experts for tips on using less energy, and insights about China's impact on future global energy markets. Edited excerpts follow. For more, visit WSJ.com/Reports. 
What One Fact About Fracking Do You Wish Was Better Understood? Right Way to Frack Hydraulic fracturing can be done in a way that is both environmentally sound and socially responsible. Oil and gas producers have been developing and using hydraulic 
fracturing techniques for decades. It has only been in the last decade, however, that hydraulic fracturing has been combined with directional drilling, allowing producers to tap tight shale oil and gas reserves that previously were considered non-retrievable. -- Bill Ritter, ex-governor of Colorado, director of the Center for the New Energy Economy at Colorado State University 
Both Sides Mislead Last year, a group from Yale estimated that shale gas production contributes over $100 billion to U.S. consumers annually. In comparison, the authors estimated that the cost of groundwater contamination could be $250 million per year, which is 1/400th the benefit. Of course, the costs aren't necessarily borne by those who are benefiting. There are many people whose lives have been altered in one form or another by the incursion of drilling into new areas. 
Proponents of fracking are also often guilty of failing to acknowledge risks or environmental concerns that may arise. The marriage of fracking with horizontal drilling is a relatively new innovation which enabled the expansion of fracking into entirely new geologies. -- Robert Rapier, chief technology officer, executive vice president, Merica International 
It's the Well Casings During the shale-gas drilling process, the main issue of concern, according to most experts, is the integrity of the well casing. If a well casing fails, drilling fluids can escape and potentially contaminate groundwater. This problem exists for any and all oil and gas drilling, not just drilling that relies on hydraulic fracturing. 
-- Margaret Walls, research director, senior fellow at Resources for the Future It Alone Won't Solve Our Energy Woes If the U.S. produces all the shale oil and shale gas the frackers have made gettable, the U.S. will have plentiful domestic fossil fuel for a very long time. Producing a given 
amount of electricity by burning natural gas emits about half as much carbon dioxide as does producing that power by burning coal. And yet, natural gas still packs plenty of carbon. If the scientists who predict dire consequences from global warming are to be believed, burning America's frackable shale gas isn't a long-term climate fix -- unless technologies can be deployed affordably to capture and safely dispose of the carbon dioxide that's emitted. 
-- Jeffrey Ball, Steyer-Taylor Center for Energy Policy and Finance, Stanford University 
What's the Best Way for Individual Americans to Use Less Energy? 
Turn Off the Lights Already 
We should simply remember to switch our lights off when we do not need them. This applies to federal, state and local governments, private firms and households. Many U.S. 

firms do not care about switching their lights off after the close of business. Installing sensors and motion-activated light switches in firms would prevent the lights from being 
on all night -- if it is economically justified, of course. 
-- Ariel Cohen, a senior research fellow in Russian and Eurasian Studies and International Energy Policy, Heritage Foundation 
Do an 'Energy Enjoyment' Inventory 

Consider the ways you use energy, and how each one contributes or does not contribute to your enjoyment of life. Do you enjoy your large house in a quiet suburb enough to justify your hourlong daily drive to the city and the heating and cooling expenses for those extra guest rooms? Are you really going to use the ice-maker in a new refrigerator enough to justify its constant energy draw? Do you need to wash the dishes right after dinner, or would you derive nerdy enjoyment from setting up a "home energy manager" that lets you run your appliances later at night when energy is cheaper? 
-- Mark Thurber, associate director, Energy and Sustainable Development, Stanford University 
Let People See Consumption in Real Time 
Families live in a wide range of climates with different patterns of energy use. To take advantage of those variances, we can give families more control over their household electricity costs and consumption. One of the key elements of the smart grid is its ability to provide real-time feedback to consumers about their energy costs. Combined with real-time pricing, families can find dozens of ways to cut their energy use, avoid periods of peak demand and reduce household costs. 
-- Todd Myers, environmental director, Washington Policy Center, Seattle 
Raise Peak Energy Prices 
Most American consumers pay a flat rate for their electricity, regardless of when it is consumed or how much they use. People run their air-conditioning at full blast, dry their clothes and heat water during peak demand periods because they have no incentive to do otherwise. Time-of-use (TOU) rates are one alternative that can provide more accurate price signals in the market. With TOU rates, customers pay a varying amount for electricity based on the time of day they use it. Prices are generally higher when electricity demand is high. 
-- Ivan Marten, senior partner, Boston Consulting Group 
How Will China Affect the Global Energy Equation in Next 5 Years? 
By Consuming, Manufacturing, Innovating 
First, according to the International Energy Agency, China will, by a long shot, account for the world's greatest increase in the consumption of coal and nuclear energy. It is already the biggest wind-power producer, and many people expect it in the next year or so to become the biggest solar-power producer, too. Second, China is selling energy-producing equipment around the world, and the quality is improving. Third, the central government has prioritized energy innovation in its current five-year plan, and is spending heavily to implement it. 
-- Jeffrey Ball 
Watch Chinese Capital and Investment 
China will continue to affect global energy markets along three dimensions: as a consumer with increasing emphasis on efficiency and energy mix optimization; as a producer investing in renewable energy and tapping unconventional resources; and as an important source of capital for global energy companies and projects. China has played an increasingly important role as a source of capital and investment in global energy companies, assets and projects. Chinese national oil companies have acquired assets in the Middle East, North America, Latin America, Africa and Asia. Chinese investments have also played an important role in renewable-energy industries: Over the past decade, a total of $40 billion has been invested by Chinese companies in solar and wind outside China. 
-- Mazen Skaf, managing director, Europe and Middle East practice of U.S.-based management consulting firm Strategic Decisions Group 
Is China Serious About Climate Change? 
The real wild card around China in the next five years is how it approaches climate policy. If China surprises everyone by putting in place serious carbon regulation, this could be a game changer for climate mitigation. China's policy efforts thus far show a recognition that climate change is real and serious. However, it is not yet clear whether China is willing to implement climate policies with bite. (The same can be said of the U.S.) China's current Five Year Plan (the 12th) includes a notional cap on coal consumption, but the previous Five Year Plan did as well, and it was exceeded. 
China's pilot carbon-trading efforts are intriguing. A cap-and-trade system has been rolled out in Shenzhen, with follow-ons to come in Beijing, Tianjin, Shanghai, Chongqing, Guangdong and Hubei. If China becomes comfortable with carbon pricing -- that it does not hinder economic growth and may even stimulate industrial innovation -- it could shift the global dialogue on climate. And it would make me far more optimistic about climate mitigation than I currently am. 
-- Mark Thurber 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Natural gas reserves; 

Petroleum industry; 

Environmental protection; 
Energy policy; 
Hydraulic fracturing; 
Energy efficiency 


Location 	China; United States--US 
Title 	The Experts: Insights From Our Online Panel 
Author 	Anonymous 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages  R.7  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  May 19, 2014  
Section  Energy (A Special Report)  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Feature  
ProQuest document ID  1525739785  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1525739785?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 314 of 376 


The Latest Storm of Climate Alarmism 
Hayward, Steven F.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]09 May 2014: A.13. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=The+Latest+Storm+of+Climate+Alarmism&title=Wall+Street+Journal&i 05-09&volume=&issue=&spage=A.13&au=Hayward%2C+Steven+F&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The third National Climate Assessment, released Tuesday by the White House, may not do anything to protect Americans from the effects of climate change, but it has done its primary job -- generating alarming headlines in the media and setting the stage for a renewed push by the Obama administration for its climate-policy agenda. 

Full Text 
The third National Climate Assessment, released Tuesday by the White House, may not do anything to protect Americans from the effects of climate change, but it has done its primary job -- generating alarming headlines in the media and setting the stage for a renewed push by the Obama administration for its climate-policy agenda. 
Coming barely six weeks after the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's most recent alarmist report -- also duly trumpeted in the media -- we have now reached the junkie's-craving phase of the climate-change story, where bigger and more frequent fixes are necessary to keep alive the euphoria of saving the world. Confronted with polls and surveys finding that the public is tuning out climate change as a matter of vital concern, the climate campaign seemingly persists in thinking that one more report will turn the tide in its favor. 
At 829 pages -- plus a separate 137-page "highlights" summary -- the National Climate Assessment is yet another behemoth report that few will entirely read, let alone fully comprehend or be able to judge. It can, however, be summarized by a sentence from the online introduction to the report: "Climate change, once considered an issue for a distant future, has moved firmly into the present." 
The report was produced by "more than 300 experts guided by a 60-member Federal Advisory Committee." Each chapter was assembled by specialists in subfields, though the complete roster of participating scientists includes a number who have expressed caution or skepticism about many of the claims popular today, such as climate-change-induced increases in damaging droughts, violent "superstorms," species extinction and air pollution. 
In coming weeks, knowledgeable critics will no doubt do the tedious job of noting the report's omissions of contrary or confounding scientific findings. But this will likely have little effect on the shape of the climate debate, which is deluged with cliches and slogans such as "97% of scientists agree" and "only the fossil-fuel industry" stands in the way of solutions. Never mind that one of the lead authors of the report's chapter on "Adaptation" is an employee of Chevron. 
The report argues that significant economic impacts of human-caused climate change in the U.S. are already occurring: "Corn producers in Iowa, oyster growers in Washington State, and maple syrup producers in Vermont are all observing climate-related changes that are outside of recent experience." These are less scientific facts than they are political statements. While climate changes can indeed be measured in economic terms, proof that they are "human-caused" is far from definitive. 
In this respect, the report loosely tracks the economically risible 2006 "Stern Review" in Great Britain; its principal author, Nicholas Stern, later admitted that the report was crafted purely with political aims in mind. With the deep-Malthusian John Holdren advising President Obama and overseeing U.S. climate policy, does anyone think this report wasn't also politically calculated? 
More interesting are the chapters on what should be done, which account for barely 100 pages of the 829-page report. Missing from the admirably short chapter on "Mitigation," the term of art for suppressing hydrocarbon energy, is any of the dreamlike slogans that we can replace fossil fuels easily, quickly, or cheaply if only we'd ratify the Kyoto Protocol and step up subsidies for renewable-energy sources. 
The mitigation chapter implicitly recognizes the unreality of the conventional climate agenda, and it concludes with an acknowledgment that we need much more research on affordable low- and non-carbon energy sources along with more basic climate science research into key "uncertainties." Anyone else who talks this way gets called a "denier." 
This refreshing realism, almost wholly ignored in the media coverage, sets the stage for the longer chapter on "Adaptation," which is woefully incomplete in many respects. It laments rather than celebrates that a great deal of adaptation and planning, such as better water management and developing heat-resistant crops, is already happening spontaneously without a central policy, and will be necessary even if future climate change occurs for entirely natural reasons. And yet, as with the latest U.N. report on climate change, the chapter requires careful reading to see that climate realism -- a responsible, "no regrets" policy that skeptics have recommended for more than two decades -- is slowly if grudgingly gaining the upper hand in the inner councils of the climate establishment. 
This will not slow the Obama administration's drive to kill off coal-fired power, block the Keystone XL pipeline and extend bureaucratic control over the energy sector, which has been the Holy Grail for the environmental movement for two generations. The White House spin on this report is undoubtedly intended to help rally another core Democratic constituency for the fall elections. Realists shouldn't cede the issue to the hysterical. By all means let's hope President Obama gets his wish, with climate and energy policy becoming a central issue in November. 
Mr. Hayward is a visiting scholar at the University of Colorado at Boulder and a visiting professor at Pepperdine University's Graduate School of Public Policy. 
(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: The Climate Continues Its Change" -- WSJ May 19, 2014) 
Credit: By Steven F. Hayward 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Climate change;  
Global warming;  
Environmental policy;  
Energy resources;  
Energy policy  
People  Obama, Barack  
Title  The Latest Storm of Climate Alarmism  
Author  Hayward, Steven F  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.13  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  May 9, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1522645319  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1522645319?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 315 of 376 


U.S. News: President Steps Up His Focus on Climate 
Colleen McCain Nelson; Mundy, Alicia.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]06 May 2014: A.4. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+President+Steps+Up+His+Focus+on+Climate&title=W 05-06&volume=&issue=&spage=A.4&au=Colleen+McCain+Nelson%3BMundy%2C+Alicia&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The report's rollout also serves as the curtain-raiser for new regulations limiting carbon emissions from existing coal-fired power plants, which will be released in early June by the Environmental Protection Agency. 

Full Text 
President Barack Obama will argue this week that the effects of climate change must be confronted now, intensifying his focus on the issue a month before new and contentious rules are due out that will regulate emissions from existing power plants. 
Tuesday's release of a report called the national climate assessment will kick-start the administration's push on an issue the president views as a key component of his legacy. The document, mandated by Congress and written by a federal advisory panel, will assess the impact global warming will have on specific regions of the country and sectors of the economy. 
The report and a series of events in the next few days offer Mr. Obama an opportunity to reassure his liberal allies, who have long urged a more aggressive approach to climate change. Mr. Obama has told environmental leaders, including some top Democratic donors, his administration is ready to tackle the issue. 
But climate change presents an election-year conundrum for the president, as global warming ranks low among the public's priorities and poses problems for Democratic candidates aligned with the energy industry. 
A Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll in January found that climate change ranked last on a list of 15 issues when people were asked what the administration should make its priorities. Only 27% of respondents said addressing climate change should be an absolute priority this year, with 41% saying that it could be delayed until next year and 29% saying it shouldn't be pursued. 
"The issue has ranked relatively low, because the threat is abstract," said Daniel J. Weiss, senior fellow at the liberal-leaning Center for American Progress. The White House will argue that the impacts are real and immediate, he added. 
John Podesta, a top White House adviser on climate change, said there was overwhelming evidence it already is affecting people's lives. "If you. . .want to try to side with the polluters and argue to the American public that climate change is not happening today, tomorrow and certainly in the future, that's going to be a losing argument," he said. 
But many Republicans believe the focus on climate change is wrong. "This report is part of the game the president is playing to distract Americans from his unchecked regulatory agenda that is costing our nation middle-class jobs, new economic opportunities and our ability to be energy independent," said Sen. James Inhofe (R., Okla.), criticizing what he called alarmism on global warming. 
The new assessment is getting very different treatment than its predecessor, released in June 2009, with almost no fanfare. This time, the White House plans multiple events and interviews with TV meteorologists. 
The report's rollout also serves as the curtain-raiser for new regulations limiting carbon emissions from existing coal-fired power plants, which will be released in early June by the Environmental Protection Agency. 
GOP lawmakers and coal-state Democrats already tried to derail emission limits for new coal plants, which were released earlier this year. For months, coal-industry lawyers have been preparing maneuvers to stop rules for existing plants. The rules might prove tricky for Democratic candidates in conservative and coal-rich states. Mr. Podesta said Democrats should argue they have bolstered oil and gas production while backing clean energy. Kevin Book, managing director at analysis firm ClearView Energy Partners, said Mr. Obama's focus on climate may help red-state Democrats as an issue on which they can distance themselves from the president. 
Amy Harder contributed to this article. 
Credit: By Colleen McCain Nelson and Alicia Mundy 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Global warming; Presidents; Industrial plant emissions; Energy industry;  

Climate change; Environmental protection 
People  Obama, Barack; Podesta, John  
Company / organization  Name: Congress  
NAICS: 921120;  
Name: Center for American Progress  
NAICS: 813940, 541720  
Classification  9180: International  
1520: Energy policy  
1540: Pollution control  
Title  U.S. News: President Steps Up His Focus on Climate  
Author  Colleen McCain Nelson; Mundy, Alicia  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.4  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  May 6, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1520851949  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1520851949?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 316 of 376 


Sacrificing Africa for Climate Change 
Rossiter, Caleb S.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]05 May 2014: A.19. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Sacrificing+Africa+for+Climate+Change&title=Wall+Street+Journal& 05-05&volume=&issue=&spage=A.19&au=Rossiter%2C+Caleb+S&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
According to the World Bank, 24% of Africans have access to electricity and the typical business loses power for 56 days each year. 

Full Text 
Every year environmental groups celebrate a night when institutions in developed countries (including my own university) turn off their lights as a protest against fossil fuels. They say their goal is to get America and Europe to look from space like Africa: dark, because of minimal energy use. 
But that is the opposite of what's desired by Africans I know. They want Africa at night to look like the developed world, with lights in every little village and with healthy people, living longer lives, sitting by those lights. Real years added to real lives should trump the minimal impact that African carbon emissions could have on a theoretical catastrophe. 
I've spent my life on the foreign-policy left. I opposed the Vietnam War, U.S. intervention in Central America in the 1980s and our invasion of Iraq. I have headed a group trying to block U.S. arms and training for "friendly" dictators, and I have written books about how U.S. policy in the developing world is neocolonial. 
But I oppose my allies' well-meaning campaign for "climate justice." More than 230 organizations, including Africa Action and Oxfam, want industrialized countries to pay "reparations" to African governments for droughts, rising sea levels and other alleged results of what Ugandan strongman Yoweri Museveni calls "climate aggression." And I oppose the campaign even more for trying to deny to Africans the reliable electricity -- and thus the economic development and extended years of life -- that fossil fuels can bring. 
The left wants to stop industrialization -- even if the hypothesis of catastrophic, man-made global warming is false. John Feffer, my colleague at the Institute for Policy Studies, wrote in the Dec. 8, 2009, Huffington Post that "even if the mercury weren't rising" we should bring "the developing world into the postindustrial age in a sustainable manner." He sees the "climate crisis [as] precisely the giant lever with which we can, following Archimedes, move the world in a greener, more equitable direction." 
I started to suspect that the climate-change data were dubious a decade ago while teaching statistics. Computer models used by the U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change to determine the cause of the six-tenths of one degree Fahrenheit rise in global temperature from 1980 to 2000 could not statistically separate fossil-fueled and natural trends. 
Then, as now, the computer models simply built in the assumption that fossil fuels are the culprit when temperatures rise, even though a similar warming took place from 1900 to 1940, before fossil fuels could have caused it. The IPCC also claims that the warming, whatever its cause, has slightly increased the length of droughts, the frequency of floods, the intensity of storms, and the rising of sea levels, projecting that these impacts will accelerate disastrously. Yet even the IPCC acknowledges that the average global temperature today remains unchanged since 2000, and did not rise one degree as the models predicted. 
But it as an Africanist, rather than a statistician, that I object most strongly to "climate justice." Where is the justice for Africans when universities divest from energy companies and thus weaken their ability to explore for resources in Africa? Where is the justice when the U.S. discourages World Bank funding for electricity-generation projects in Africa that involve fossil fuels, and when the European Union places a "global warming" tax on cargo flights importing perishable African goods? Even if the wildest claims about the current impact of fossil fuels on the environment and the models predicting the future impact all prove true and accurate, Africa should be exempted from global restraints as it seeks to modernize. 
With 15% of the world's people, Africa produces less than 5% of carbon-dioxide emissions. With 4% of global population, America produces 25% of these emissions. In other words, each American accounts for 20 times the emissions of each African. We are not rationing our electricity. Why should Africa, which needs electricity for the sort of income-producing enterprises and infrastructure that help improve life expectancy? The average in Africa is 59 years -- in America it's 79. Increased access to electricity was crucial in China's growth, which raised life expectancy to 75 today from 59 in 1968. 
According to the World Bank, 24% of Africans have access to electricity and the typical business loses power for 56 days each year. Faced with unreliable power, businesses turn to diesel generators, which are three times as expensive as the electricity grid. Diesel also produces black soot, a respiratory health hazard. By comparison, bringing more-reliable electricity to more Africans would power the cleaning of water in villages, where much of the population still lives, and replace wood and dung fires as the source of heat and lighting in shacks and huts, removing major sources of disease and death. In the cities, reliable electricity would encourage businesses to invest and reinvest rather than send their profits abroad. 
Mindful of the benefits, the Obama administration's Power Africa proposal and the World Bank are trying to double African access to electricity. But they have been hamstrung by the opposition of their political base to fossil fuels -- even though off-grid and renewable power from the sun, tides and wind is still too unreliable, too hard to transmit, and way too expensive for Africa to build and maintain as its primary source of power. 
In 2010 the left tried to block a World Bank loan for a new coal-fired plant in South Africa. Fortunately, the loan was approved (with the U.S. abstaining). The drive to provide electricity for the poor has been perhaps the greatest achievement of South Africa's post-apartheid governments. 
Standing on the mountainside at night in Cape Town, overlooking the "Coloured" township of Mitchell's Plain and the African township of Khayelitsha, you can now see a twinkling blanket of bulbs. How terrible to think that so many people in the West would rather block such success stories in the name of unproved science. 
Mr. Rossiter directs the American Exceptionalism Media Project. He is an adjunct professor at American University and an associate fellow at the Institute for Policy Studies. 
Credit: By Caleb S. Rossiter 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Fossil fuels; Greenhouse effect; Global warming; Life expectancy; Climate change  
Location  United States--US; Africa  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Oxfam GB 813219;  
Name: NAICS:  Africa Action 813311;  
Name: NAICS:  International Bank for Reconstruction & Development--World Bank 928120;  
Name: NAICS:  Institute for Policy Studies 541720  
Title  Sacrificing Africa for Climate Change  
Author  Rossiter, Caleb S  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.19  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  May 5, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1520724392  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1520724392?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  

Last updated 2017-11-21 
Database US Newsstream 
document 317 of 376 


REVIEW --- The Scarcity Fallacy --- Ecologists worry that the world's resources come in fixed amounts that will run out, but we have broken through such limits again and again; How innovation improves the environment 
Ridley, Matt.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]26 Apr 2014: C.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=REVIEW+---+The+Scarcity+Fallacy+--­+Ecologists+worry+that+the+world%27s+resources+come+in+fixed+amounts+that+will+run+out%2C+but+we+have+broken+through+such+limits+again+and+again%3B+Ho 04-26&volume=&issue=&spage=C.1&au=Ridley%2C+Matt&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
How many times have you heard that we humans are "using up" the world's resources, "running out" of oil, "reaching the limits" of the atmosphere's capacity to cope with pollution or "approaching the carrying capacity" of the land's ability to support a greater population? Ecologists can't seem to see that when whale oil starts to run out, petroleum is discovered, or that when farm yields flatten, fertilizer comes along, or that when glass fiber is invented, demand for copper falls. 

Full Text 
How many times have you heard that we humans are "using up" the world's resources, "running out" of oil, "reaching the limits" of the atmosphere's capacity to cope with pollution or "approaching the carrying capacity" of the land's ability to support a greater population? The assumption behind all such statements is that there is a fixed amount of stuff -- metals, oil, clean air, land -- and that we risk exhausting it through our consumption. 
"We are using 50% more resources than the Earth can sustainably produce, and unless we change course, that number will grow fast -- by 2030, even two planets will not be enough," says Jim Leape, director general of the World Wide Fund for Nature International (formerly the World Wildlife Fund). 
But here's a peculiar feature of human history: We burst through such limits again and again. After all, as a Saudi oil minister once said, the Stone Age didn't end for lack of stone. Ecologists call this "niche construction" -- that people (and indeed some other animals) can create new opportunities for themselves by making their habitats more productive in some way. Agriculture is the classic example of niche construction: We stopped relying on nature's bounty and substituted an artificial and much larger bounty. 
Economists call the same phenomenon innovation. What frustrates them about ecologists is the latter's tendency to think in terms of static limits. Ecologists can't seem to see that when whale oil starts to run out, petroleum is discovered, or that when farm yields flatten, fertilizer comes along, or that when glass fiber is invented, demand for copper falls. 
That frustration is heartily reciprocated. Ecologists think that economists espouse a sort of superstitious magic called "markets" or "prices" to avoid confronting the reality of limits to growth. The easiest way to raise a cheer in a conference of ecologists is to make a rude joke about economists. 
I have lived among both tribes. I studied various forms of ecology in an academic setting for seven years and then worked at the Economist magazine for eight years. When I was an ecologist (in the academic sense of the word, not the political one, though I also had antinuclear stickers on my car), I very much espoused the carrying-capacity viewpoint -- that there were limits to growth. I nowadays lean to the view that there are no limits because we can invent new ways of doing more with less. 
This disagreement goes to the heart of many current political issues and explains much about why people disagree about environmental policy. In the climate debate, for example, pessimists see a limit to the atmosphere's capacity to cope with extra carbon dioxide without rapid warming. So a continuing increase in emissions if economic growth continues will eventually accelerate warming to dangerous rates. But optimists see economic growth leading to technological change that would result in the use of lower-carbon energy. That would allow warming to level off long before it does much harm. 
It is striking, for example, that the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's recent forecast that temperatures would rise by 3.7 to 4.8 degrees Celsius compared with preindustrial levels by 2100 was based on several assumptions: little technological change, an end to the 50-year fall in population growth rates, a tripling (only) of per capita income and not much improvement in the energy efficiency of the economy. Basically, that would mean a world much like today's but with lots more people burning lots more coal and oil, leading to an increase in emissions. Most economists expect a five- or tenfold increase in income, huge changes in technology and an end to population growth by 2100: not so many more people needing much less carbon. 
In 1679, Antonie van Leeuwenhoek, the great Dutch microscopist, estimated that the planet could hold 13.4 billion people, a number that most demographers think we may never reach. Since then, estimates have bounced around between 1 billion and 100 billion, with no sign of converging on an agreed figure. 
Economists point out that we keep improving the productivity of each acre of land by applying fertilizer, mechanization, pesticides and irrigation. Further innovation is bound to shift the ceiling upward. Jesse Ausubel at Rockefeller University calculates that the amount of land required to grow a given quantity of food has fallen by 65% over the past 50 years, world-wide. 
Ecologists object that these innovations rely on nonrenewable resources, such as oil and gas, or renewable ones that are being used up faster than they are replenished, such as aquifers. So current yields cannot be maintained, let alone improved. 
In his recent book "The View from Lazy Point," the ecologist Carl Safina estimates that if everybody had the living standards of Americans, we would need 2.5 Earths because the world's agricultural land just couldn't grow enough food for more than 2.5 billion people at that level of consumption. Harvard emeritus professor E.O. Wilson, one of ecology's patriarchs, reckoned that only if we all turned vegetarian could the world's farms grow enough food to support 10 billion people. 
Economists respond by saying that since large parts of the world, especially in Africa, have yet to gain access to fertilizer and modern farming techniques, there is no reason to think that the global land requirements for a given amount of food will cease shrinking any time soon. Indeed, Mr. Ausubel, together with his colleagues Iddo Wernick and Paul Waggoner, came to the startling conclusion that, even with generous assumptions about population growth and growing affluence leading to greater demand for meat and other luxuries, and with ungenerous assumptions about future global yield improvements, we will need less farmland in 2050 than we needed in 2000. (So long, that is, as we don't grow more biofuels on land that could be growing food.) 
But surely intensification of yields depends on inputs that may run out? Take water, a commodity that limits the production of food in many places. Estimates made in the 1960s and 1970s of water demand by the year 2000 proved grossly overestimated: The world used half as much water as experts had projected 30 years before. 
The reason was greater economy in the use of water by new irrigation techniques. Some countries, such as Israel and Cyprus, have cut water use for irrigation through the use of drip irrigation. Combine these improvements with solar-driven desalination of seawater world-wide, and it is highly unlikely that fresh water will limit human population. 
The best-selling book "Limits to Growth," published in 1972 by the Club of Rome (an influential global think tank), argued that we would have bumped our heads against all sorts of ceilings by now, running short of various metals, fuels, minerals and space. Why did it not happen? In a word, technology: better mining techniques, more frugal use of materials, and if scarcity causes price increases, substitution by cheaper material. We use 100 times thinner gold plating on computer connectors than we did 40 years ago. The steel content of cars and buildings keeps on falling. 
Until about 10 years ago, it was reasonable to expect that natural gas might run out in a few short decades and oil soon thereafter. If that were to happen, agricultural yields would plummet, and the world would be faced with a stark dilemma: Plow up all the remaining rain forest to grow food, or starve. 
But thanks to fracking and the shale revolution, peak oil and gas have been postponed. They will run out one day, but only in the sense that you will run out of Atlantic Ocean one day if you take a rowboat west out of a harbor in Ireland. Just as you are likely to stop rowing long before you bump into Newfoundland, so we may well find cheap substitutes for fossil fuels long before they run out. 
The economist and metals dealer Tim Worstall gives the example of tellurium, a key ingredient of some kinds of solar panels. Tellurium is one of the rarest elements in the Earth's crust -- one atom per billion. Will it soon run out? Mr. Worstall estimates that there are 120 million tons of it, or a million years' supply altogether. It is sufficiently concentrated in the residues from refining copper ores, called copper slimes, to be worth extracting for a very long time to come. One day, it will also be recycled as old solar panels get cannibalized to make new ones. 
Or take phosphorus, an element vital to agricultural fertility. The richest phosphate mines, such as on the island of Nauru in the South Pacific, are all but exhausted. Does that mean the world is running out? No: There are extensive lower grade deposits, and if we get desperate, all the phosphorus atoms put into the ground over past centuries still exist, especially in the mud of estuaries. It's just a matter of concentrating them again. 
In 1972, the ecologist Paul Ehrlich of Stanford University came up with a simple formula called IPAT, which stated that the impact of humankind was equal to population multiplied by affluence multiplied again by technology. In other words, the damage done to Earth increases the more people there are, the richer they get and the more technology they have. 
Many ecologists still subscribe to this doctrine, which has attained the status of holy writ in ecology. But the past 40 years haven't been kind to it. In many respects, greater affluence and new technology have led to less human impact on the planet, not more. Richer people with new technologies tend not to collect firewood and bushmeat from natural forests; instead, they use electricity and farmed chicken -- both of which need much less land. In 2006, Mr. Ausubel calculated that no country with a GDP per head greater than $4,600 has a falling stock of forest (in density as well as in acreage). 
Haiti is 98% deforested and literally brown on satellite images, compared with its green, well-forested neighbor, the Dominican Republic. The difference stems from Haiti's poverty, which causes it to rely on charcoal for domestic and industrial energy, whereas the Dominican Republic is wealthy enough to use fossil fuels, subsidizing propane gas for cooking fuel specifically so that people won't cut down forests. 
Part of the problem is that the word "consumption" means different things to the two tribes. Ecologists use it to mean "the act of using up a resource"; economists mean "the purchase of goods and services by the public" (both definitions taken from the Oxford dictionary). 
But in what sense is water, tellurium or phosphorus "used up" when products made with them are bought by the public? They still exist in the objects themselves or in the environment. Water returns to the environment through sewage and can be reused. Phosphorus gets recycled through compost. Tellurium is in solar panels, which can be recycled. As the economist Thomas Sowell wrote in his 1980 book "Knowledge and Decisions," "Although we speak loosely of 'production,' man neither creates nor destroys matter, but only transforms it." 
Given that innovation -- or "niche construction" -- causes ever more productivity, how do ecologists justify the claim that we are already overdrawn at the planetary bank and would need at least another planet to sustain the lifestyles of 10 billion people at U.S. standards of living? 
Examine the calculations done by a group called the Global Footprint Network -- a think tank founded by Mathis Wackernagel in Oakland, Calif., and supported by more than 70 international environmental organizations -- and it becomes clear. The group assumes that the fossil fuels burned in the pursuit of higher yields must be offset in the future by tree planting on a scale that could soak up the emitted carbon dioxide. A widely used measure of "ecological footprint" simply assumes that 54% of the acreage we need should be devoted to "carbon uptake." 
But what if tree planting wasn't the only way to soak up carbon dioxide? Or if trees grew faster when irrigated and fertilized so you needed fewer of them? Or if we cut emissions, as the U.S. has recently done by substituting gas for coal in electricity generation? Or if we tolerated some increase in emissions (which are measurably increasing crop yields, by the way)? Any of these factors could wipe out a huge chunk of the deemed ecological overdraft and put us back in planetary credit. 
Helmut Haberl of Klagenfurt University in Austria is a rare example of an ecologist who takes economics seriously. He points out that his fellow ecologists have been using "human appropriation of net primary production" -- that is, the percentage of the world's green vegetation eaten or prevented from growing by us and our domestic animals -­as an indicator of ecological limits to growth. Some ecologists had begun to argue that we were using half or more of all the greenery on the planet. 
This is wrong, says Dr. Haberl, for several reasons. First, the amount appropriated is still fairly low: About 14.2% is eaten by us and our animals, and an additional 9.6% is prevented from growing by goats and buildings, according to his estimates. Second, most economic growth happens without any greater use of biomass. Indeed, human appropriation usually declines as a country industrializes and the harvest grows -- as a result of agricultural intensification rather than through plowing more land. 
Finally, human activities actually increase the production of green vegetation in natural ecosystems. Fertilizer taken up by crops is carried into forests and rivers by wild birds and animals, where it boosts yields of wild vegetation too (sometimes too much, causing algal blooms in water). In places like the Nile delta, wild ecosystems are more productive than they would be without human intervention, despite the fact that much of the land is used for growing human food. 
If I could have one wish for the Earth's environment, it would be to bring together the two tribes -- to convene a grand powwow of ecologists and economists. I would pose them this simple question and not let them leave the room until they had answered it: How can innovation improve the environment? 
Mr. Ridley is the author of "The Rational Optimist" and a member of the British House of Lords. (See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: Civilization Has Generally Mastered Scarcity in the Past" -- WSJ May 3, 2014) 
Credit: By Matt Ridley 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Environmental protection;  
Carbon;  
Ecology;  
Population growth;  
Ecologists;  
Technological change;  
Economists  
People  Leape, Jim  
Company / organization  Name: World Wildlife Fund  
NAICS: 813312  
Title  REVIEW --- The Scarcity Fallacy --- Ecologists worry that the world's resources come in fixed  
amounts that will run out, but we have broken through such limits again and again; How  
innovation improves the environment  
Author  Ridley, Matt  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  C.1  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Apr 26, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1519017651  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1519017651?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 318 of 376 


Business & Environment (A Special Report) --- Hungry for Power, Hungry for Innovation: There's money to be made at the intersection of business and the environment; But it isn't necessarily easy money 
Bussey, John.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]09 Apr 2014: R.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Business+%26amp%3B+Environment+%28A+Special+Report%29+ 
+Hungry+for+Power%2C+Hungry+for+Innovation%3A+There%27s+money+to+be+made+at+the+intersection+of+business+and+the+environment%3B+But+it+isn%27t+nece 04-09&volume=&issue=&spage=R.1&au=Bussey%2C+John&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Creating Environmental Capital] It may have been a celestial sign that, smack in the middle of The Wall Street Journal's ECO:nomics conference last week, a company called Opower Inc. launched its initial public offering. 

Full Text 
[ECO:nomics: Creating Environmental Capital] 
It may have been a celestial sign that, smack in the middle of The Wall Street Journal's ECO:nomics conference last week, a company called Opower Inc. launched its initial 
public offering. 
Opower uses behavioral science to get homeowners to reduce energy use. It priced at $19 a share and now trades near $22. 
The message to conference goers: There's still plenty of momentum -- and money to be made -- at the intersection of business and the environment. 
That may seem obvious. But the past few years produced a lot of pileups in that intersection. Fisker, Solyndra, cellulosic ethanol -- the list goes on. Those in venture capital, 

private equity and government loan offices have all been licking their wounds. 

Even long-popular recycling has hit a speed bump. David Steiner, chief executive of Waste Management Inc., told the ECO:nomics audience that processing the garbage that 
goes into recycling now costs more than what you can charge for the product that comes out the other end. 
And yet, the pressure to rethink energy just keeps building, and with it the need for innovation and solutions. That's what this year's ECO:nomics participants heard loud and 

clear. The conference gathered together innovators, investors, and CEOs of some of the world's biggest companies in energy production, distribution, and consumption. They 

talked about climate change and promising innovations that could recast energy consumption -- but over decades, not years. 
Shaping their outlook: the world's ever-growing demand for energy, particularly in smog-choked China and India. For all the promise of clean energy such as wind and solar, 
old-fashioned coal is commanding a larger role in global power generation. 

Forty percent of those at the conference said shale-gas production is the most effective way to supplant dirtier fuels over the next decade. Some 60% expect hydrogen fuel-cell 

cars to sell in volume within 15 years. 
And when asked to reflect on the successful IPO in December 2012 of SolarCity Corp., a solar-power firm, half said 2014 will see a similarly strong IPO of a renewable-energy 
company. 

How good are these people at forecasting? At last year's ECO:nomics conference, attendees vetted six startup companies and voted for the one most likely to succeed. 
Its name: Opower. 

Mr. Bussey is an assistant managing editor and executive business editor of The Wall Street Journal. He can be reached at john.bussey@wsj.com or on Twitter @johncbussey. Credit: By John Bussey 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Acquisitions & mergers; 

Initial public offerings; 
Conferences; 
Series & special reports; 
Environmental protection; 

Innovations; Energy resources  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Opower 541511;  
Name: NAICS:  SolarCity Corp 238220, 333414;  
Name: NAICS:  Waste Management Inc 562111  
Title  Business & Environment (A Special Report) --- Hungry for Power, Hungry for Innovation: There's money to be made at the intersection of business and the environment; But it isn't necessarily easy money  
Author  Bussey, John  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  R.1  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Apr 9, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1513710856  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1513710856?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 319 of 376 


How Climate Change Conquered the American Campus 
Tice, Paul H.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]08 Apr 2014: A.15. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=How+Climate+Change+Conquered+the+American+Campus&title=W 04-08&volume=&issue=&spage=A.15&au=Tice%2C+Paul+H&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
By largely ignoring it. Because the industry is oil and gas. 

Full Text 
Here is a college quiz. While many parts of the U.S. economy struggle to recover from the Great Recession of 2008-09, one domestic industry is experiencing a technology-driven expansion in which American innovations have led to countless new company startups, a surge in hiring and some of the highest-paying entry-level jobs for graduating college seniors. 
How are the nation's universities responding so students might prepare for a promising career in this growing and intellectually challenging field? By largely ignoring it. Why? Because the industry is oil and gas. 
This fact may surprise the casual campus observer, since almost every U.S. college these days seems to have an energy research institute. Most of these energy think-tanks, however, are run by academic advocates of theories about global warming and man-made climate change, most of whom view energy through green-colored lenses. The research focus is more on promoting the clean, sustainable, renewable, non-CO2-emitting energy of the future, as opposed to studying and analyzing the hydrocarbon resources of the here and now. 
For some of these programs, the agenda is obvious and stated in bold print over the door. Names such as the Yale Climate & Energy Institute and the Princeton Center for Energy and the Environment make clear that the study of energy needs to be chaperoned and monitored. The labeling is less obvious for others, but the result is the same. Visit the websites of the neutrally named Cornell Energy Institute, MIT Energy Initiative and Penn Center for Energy Innovation, and you would think you were looking at algore.com. 
My alma mater, Columbia University, recently launched its own Center on Global Energy Policy, with the mission to "improve the quality of energy policy and energy dialogue through objective, balanced and understandable analysis." The center is headed by Jason Bordoff, former senior director for energy and climate change on the staff of the National Security Council in the Obama administration, who is on record calling for carbon caps and immediate government action to drive down greenhouse-gas emissions. So much for balance. 
With all of these research institutes, the messaging is consistent: Fossil-fuel energy is a problem to be solved, a challenge to be overcome, a sector that needs to be transformed and the relic of an industrial state from which to evolve. The policy prescriptions issued by these think-tanks are often presented as moral imperatives, which helps to cut down on the debate. 
More troubling is how this ideological bias filters into the college curriculum, both through the content of introductory natural science courses required of all students and the choice of majors and specialty electives offered by technical undergraduate schools. 
Based on survey data compiled by the National Association of Colleges and Employers, the top-paying undergraduate major in 2013 was petroleum engineering, with an average starting salary of $97,000. How many of the country's top engineering schools offer such a major? Outside of Texas, Colorado and Oklahoma, not many. Often the closest approximation is a bachelor of science degree in Earth, Atmospheric and Planetary Sciences or the equivalent, with a handful of classes on petrology and geophysics safely outnumbered by myriad courses on environmental science, climatology, global-warming theory and alternate-energy sources. 
The oil and gas industry has been historically volatile and marked by boom-and-bust cycles caused by fluctuating commodity prices, with company prospects often tied to hit-or­miss exploratory drilling. Not surprisingly, the industry has struggled with periodic brain drain since the 1980s as students looking for steady employment and career growth have been turned off by such uncertainty. 
Technological advances such as seismic imaging, horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing -- all developed by private companies -- have removed much of this volatility and changed the nature of the industry to more of a manufacturing operation. But now another source of even greater uncertainty has been injected into the mix: political and regulatory risk. This is one energy lesson that undergraduates are hearing loud and clear from their professors. 
How many college students have been discouraged from considering a field in petroleum engineering or traditional energy finance because of the rational concern that the current Environmental Protection Agency-led attack on coal will move next to target oil and gas? Conversely, how many recent undergraduates have been led down the green garden path toward a career in renewable energy, only to receive a hard-knock, real-life economics lesson in the commercial failures of solar, wind, ethanol, battery and fuel-cell technologies? 
Obviously, having proponents of man-made-climate-change theory running energy-research institutes at the college level is an example of inmates taking over the asylum, but there is method to this madness. Over the past 25 years, the environmental movement has been very successful using a two-pronged approach to push its anti-fossil-fuel agenda. 
The first prong involves leveraging the U.S. courts and executive agencies to directly control the oil and gas industry through government regulation and taxation. The second involves indirect control through thought leadership and opinion-shaping. Culturally and generationally, man-made climate change is becoming accepted wisdom due to the steady indoctrination taking place in our universities. 
Mr. Tice works in investment management and is a former Wall Street energy-research analyst. 
Credit: By Paul H. Tice 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Environmental protection;  
Energy policy;  
Petroleum industry;  
Curricula;  
Research centers;  
Colleges & universities;  
Climate change  
Location  United States--US  
Classification  1520: Energy policy  
9190: United States  
5400: Research & development  
8306: Schools and educational services  
Title  How Climate Change Conquered the American Campus  
Author  Tice, Paul H  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.15  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Apr 8, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1513291231  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1513291231?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 320 of 376 


REVIEW --- The Smart Way to Do Fracking --- Plug leaks, run more tests and build better wells 
Gold, Russell.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]05 Apr 2014: C.3. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=REVIEW+---+The+Smart+Way+to+Do+Fracking+--­+Plug+leaks%2C+run+more+tests+and+build+better+wells&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2014-04­05&volume=&issue=&spage=C.3&au=Gold%2C+Russell&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
[...]fracking is an industrial process, and its many critics have some real and legitimate concerns about its impact on the environment and the communities near the wells. Since we're fracking so much, what can we do to make it safer for people and the planet? I've asked this question, in one form or another, to hundreds of engineers, executives, academics and environmentalists since touring my first frack site more than a decade ago. "When you keep methane in the pipe, not only is it the right thing to do, but you capture it for sale," says Ted Brown, senior vice president of Noble Energy Inc. The Houston company is the largest oil and gas producer in Colorado, which recently proposed new air-emission rules. 

Full Text 
New York state has a moratorium on hydraulic fracturing. So do Los Angeles, Quebec and France. Polls show rising opposition to this controversial oil field technique, which cracks open rocks to free oil and natural gas, and some critics want it banned unless it can be proven safe. 
Meanwhile, U.S. energy companies are drilling and fracking about 100 wells every day across much of the country. Whether you think that it is an economic godsend or fear that it is an environmental disaster, whether you spell it fracking or fraccing (as the energy industry prefers), that is a lot of holes in the ground. 
Fracking is a fairly straightforward process. You drill a well straight down for a few thousand feet and gradually turn the shaft until it runs horizontally through the shale. Then you isolate a section of the rock and inject water, sand and chemicals under high pressure. This makes the rock fracture -- hence the name. The sand stays behind to prop open the new network of fractures, and oil and gas flow out. 
Like it or not, fracking will continue. It is big business for giants such as Exxon Mobil Corp. to smaller firms such as Range Resources Corp. From railroads to petrochemicals, many sectors of the economy are reliant on the business of the energy boom, creating a broad coalition to support it. Fracking generates middle-class jobs and pays checks to mineral-rights owners. It can help U.S. national security by making the country less reliant on foreign oil, and it provides plenty of relatively low-carbon, affordable energy that makes North America the envy of the world. 
But fracking is an industrial process, and its many critics have some real and legitimate concerns about its impact on the environment and the communities near the wells. 
Since we're fracking so much, what can we do to make it safer for people and the planet? I've asked this question, in one form or another, to hundreds of engineers, executives, academics and environmentalists since touring my first frack site more than a decade ago. I've heard many answers. Here are three that seem eminently reasonable. 
Fix the leaks. 
Natural gas is an efficient fuel, and burning it emits significantly fewer greenhouse gases than burning coal. But natural gas is mostly methane, a very potent contributor to climate change. If too much methane leaks, natural gas stops being part of a climate solution and becomes part of the problem. 
We don't really know how much methane is leaking from wells and pipelines. A recent article in the journal Science suggested that leakage rates are well above current federal estimates. 
"If you want to argue that gas is part of the climate solution, you have to deal with methane leakage," says Hal Harvey, chief executive of Energy Innovations LLC, a policy and technology consultant. The good news, he adds: "It's a plumbing problem. It's not thermodynamics." Making a power plant twice as efficient is difficult engineering; cutting methane leakage in half isn't. You just find the leaks and plug them. 
Some companies are ready to comply. "When you keep methane in the pipe, not only is it the right thing to do, but you capture it for sale," says Ted Brown, senior vice president of Noble Energy Inc. The Houston company is the largest oil and gas producer in Colorado, which recently proposed new air-emission rules. Noble plans to hire 16 full-time employees to use infrared cameras to find leaks around its wells and pipelines. 
Methane also contributes to smog, and Denver's air quality is deteriorating. Tackling smog would create a visible sign of the industry's efforts to run a tighter ship. 
Get better data. 
Fights over whether fracking contaminates groundwater are bitter and divisive. Many people who live near fracking sites worry that their health is at risk. The only way to take these concerns off the table -- or fix problems as they arise -- is to require more testing, especially before drilling starts. 
The Center for Sustainable Shale Development, a joint effort of major operators, environmental groups and foundations, says that it is critical to test groundwater before drilling begins and then for at least a year afterward. 
"We want to say, 'Here's the data, it speaks for itself,'" says Susan Packard LeGros, executive director of the group, which counts Chevron Corp., the Environmental Defense Fund and the William Penn Foundation among its partners. 
Requiring independent tests of water before drilling begins makes sense, says Michael Webber, deputy director of the Energy Institute at the University of Texas. "It would be good for companies because it protects them from abusive false claims," he says. "It would also give the local community peace of mind and evidence to take action if they need to take action." 
Testing should go further, he says. Before-and-after air sampling could identify locations that release toxic compounds. Surveys of community-health metrics could help identify ways in which concentrated drilling activity harms nearby residents -- or dispel misconceptions and worries. 
Mr. Webber says that requiring this kind of testing would also create valuable data on water resources and environmental quality across the country, something that doesn't now exist. "We have big data in everything in life except for our natural resources and the environment," he says. 
Build better wells. 
In 2012, Claude Cooke called me after an article I wrote about poorly built gas wells. He is one of nine men whom the Society of Petroleum Engineers has honored as a "Legend of Hydraulic Fracturing." 
He said that people worried that the cracks in the rock caused by fracking would cause environmental problems. This fear was misplaced, he said: Fracking takes place miles below the surface of the earth or any potable aquifer. 
"If there is a problem, the issue is well integrity," he said, and most likely a problem with the cement placed around wells to prevent any fluid or gas from migrating upward. Faulty cement doomed the Deepwater Horizon rig in the Gulf of Mexico and led to the death of 11 men and the worst offshore environmental disaster in U.S. history. 
California has set an interesting example in ensuring that wells are built well. Last year, when the state published interim regulations on fracking, chief among them were steps to ensure a well's integrity, including testing its cement. 
Mr. Cooke says that more can be done to make sure that a well is safe and secure -- and built to last for decades. After all, the U.S. is drilling 100 new wells a day. It would be a colossal problem if they were unsound. 
The industry figured out how to extract abundant energy from the densest rocks imaginable. Now it has a chance to do something even more audacious: to show that it can provide that energy in a safe, clean way. 
Mr. Gold covers the energy industry for The Wall Street Journal and is the author of "The Boom: How Fracking Ignited the American Energy Revolution and Changed the World," to be published by Simon & Schuster on April 8. 
Credit: By Russell Gold 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Energy industry; 

Hydraulic fracturing; 
Environmental impact 


Location 	United States--US 
Classification 	9190: United States 

8510: Petroleum industry 


Title 	REVIEW --- The Smart Way to Do Fracking --- Plug leaks, run more tests and build better wells 
Author 	Gold, Russell 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	C.3 
Publication year 	2014 
Publication date 	Apr 5, 2014 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 	00999660 
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1512675663  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1512675663?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 321 of 376 


Notable & Quotable: Green Religion 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]02 Apr 2014: A.17. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Notable+%26amp%3B+Quotable%3A+Green+Religion&title=Wall+Stre 04-02&volume=&issue=&spage=A.17&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The 94 year-old scientist, famous for his Gaia hypothesis that Earth is a self-regulating, single organism, also said that he had been too certain about the rate of global warming in his past book ["Revenge of Gaia," 2006], that "it's just as silly to be a [climate] denier as it is to be a believer" and that fracking and nuclear power should power the UK, not renewable sources such as windfarms. . 

Full Text 
From an article by environmental journalist Adam Vaughan in the Guardian (U.K.), March 30: 
Environmentalism has "become a religion" and does not pay enough attention to facts, according to James Lovelock. The 94 year-old scientist, famous for his Gaia hypothesis that Earth is a self-regulating, single organism, also said that he had been too certain about the rate of global warming in his past book ["Revenge of Gaia," 2006], that "it's just as silly to be a [climate] denier as it is to be a believer" and that fracking and nuclear power should power the UK, not renewable sources such as windfarms. . . . 
Talking about the environmental movement, Lovelock says: "It's become a religion, and religions don't worry too much about facts." The retired scientist, who worked at the Medical Research Council, describes himself as an "old-fashioned green." Lovelock reiterated his support for fracking for shale gas, which has been strongly backed by David Cameron and the government but vigorously opposed by anti-fracking activists . . . 
"The government is too frightened to use nuclear, renewables won't work -- because we don't have enough sun -- and we can't go on burning coal because it produces so much CO2, so that leaves fracking. It produces only a fraction of the amount of CO2 that coal does, and will make Britain secure in energy for quite a few years. We don't have much choice," he said. 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject Notable & quotable (wsj) 
People Vaughan, Adam 
Title Notable & Quotable: Green Religion 
Author Anonymous 
Publication title Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages A.17 
Publication year 2014 
Publication date Apr 2, 2014 
Publisher Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Feature  
ProQuest document ID  1511757505  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1511757505?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 322 of 376 


Next In Tech: China's Wager: Pulling Energy From the Ocean 
Hall, Simon.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]01 Apr 2014: B.5. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Next+In+Tech%3A+China%27s+Wager%3A+Pulling+Energy+From+th 04-01&volume=&issue=&spage=B.5&au=Hall%2C+Simon&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Making electricity from the sea still is far more costly than using coal, oil, nuclear reactors or wind, and some technologies being tested in China could prove impractical. Since 2010, Beijing has spent around one billion yuan, or roughly $160 million, on energy from the sea, says Wang Chuankun, a former head of the ocean-energy committee of the China Renewable Energy Society academic association. 

Full Text 
HONG KONG -- A race is under way to unlock one of the world's biggest untapped sources of clean energy -- the ocean -- with China emerging as an important testing ground. 
That could heighten competition with Western companies, especially if Chinese businesses begin using technologies developed with joint-venture partners to expand rapidly. 
The European Union so far has led efforts to harness the sea to make electricity, for which there are three principal techniques: underwater turbines that draw power from the ebb and flow of tides, surface-based floats that rely on wave motion and systems that exploit differences in water temperature. 
The world's first commercial, grid-connected tidal-flow generator was installed in Northern Ireland in 2008. Germany's Siemens AG, a big investor in wave and tidal power, predicts that tidal currents alone could someday power 250 million households. France's Alstom SA also is developing the technology. 
But with 11,000 miles of coastline rich with energy potential and pollution that is getting worse, China is seen by many experts as an ideal location to pioneer and commercialize ocean-energy technologies. 
China is stepping up spending in the sector, and foreign companies including U.S.-based Lockheed Martin Corp. are testing equipment and entering joint ventures in the country. 
Among the projects under study with Chinese backing: the dynamic tidal-power wall, with turbines using curved blades that are designed to allow eels and fish to pass through safely. If approved, the wall could supply as much electricity as 2 1/2 large nuclear reactors -- and cost as much as $30 billion. Investors include the Netherlands government and a consortium of Dutch companies, including engineering firms Arcadis NV and Strukton Groep NV. 
The venture dwarfs other sea-power projects and could produce electricity more cheaply than offshore wind farms, says Dimiti de Boer, a senior adviser for environment and climate change at the United Nations Industrial Development Organization. 
The project involves building a wall running perpendicular from the coast and then branching off into a T, extending around 20 miles and studded with turbines that would channel and concentrate the power of tidal water. Construction is at least a decade away, though initial findings suggest that shallow waters on the Chinese, Korean and European coasts could be suitable. 
"China is at the cutting edge" in sea-energy technology development, says Mr. de Boer, who is based in Beijing. 
Making electricity from the sea still is far more costly than using coal, oil, nuclear reactors or wind, and some technologies being tested in China could prove impractical. 
Since 2010, Beijing has spent around one billion yuan, or roughly $160 million, on energy from the sea, says Wang Chuankun, a former head of the ocean-energy committee of the China Renewable Energy Society academic association. 
Overall private investment in sea-energy projects in Europe has reached about $825 million over the past seven years, and the U.S. Energy Department is supporting several Pacific Coast research ventures. Chile, Australia and other countries also have substantial projects under way. 
Many people in the industry believe China will be key, however. Lockheed is working with Chinese conglomerate Reignwood Group, to build the world's first large-scale, ocean thermal-energy conversion power station. The companies plan to decide by June where in Asia to build the 10-megawatt facility, which will use warm surface water to heat ammonia, which has a low boiling point, making steam to drive a turbine without carbon emissions. The steam is then condensed using deeper, colder water and the cycle is repeated, producing a constant flow of electricity costing around 15 cents a kilowatt-hour. That is more expensive than nuclear power but well below the 22 cents for offshore wind turbines, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration. Ten megawatts is enough to power about 10,000 Western households. 
Lockheed believes that building utility-scale generators that are 10 times larger would be economically and technically viable, says Dan Heller, the company's vice president of new ventures. 
Atlantis Resources Ltd. is building the world's largest tidal-flow project, to power 200,000 homes off northern Scotland using hundreds of seabed generators. The company last year signed a pact with China's Dongfang Electric Machinery Co. to produce low-cost, 1.5-megawatt underwater turbines. 
Atlantis plans this year to install a turbine for the Chinese government's largest tidal test project, near Shanghai. 
Israel-based Eco Wave Power is working with the Zhejiang, China, provincial government to assess three sites for a 50-megawatt, wave-powered generator using floats anchored to piers. S.D.E. Ltd., also from Israel, is building a third wave- and tide-driven system using buoys, in the southern Chinese city of Guangdong. 
Some experts predict cooperation between Western and Chinese marine-energy pioneers could turn into heated competition as the market develops, repeating what happened in the wind and solar sectors. 
Credit: By Simon Hall 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Energy policy;  
Surface water;  
Clean technology;  
Oceans  
Location  China  
Company / organization  Name:  European Union  
NAICS:  926110, 928120;  
Name:  Lockheed Martin Corp  
NAICS:  336411, 336413, 336414, 212319, 334290;  
Name:  Siemens AG  
NAICS:  334517, 334210, 334220  
Classification  1510: Energy resources  
9179: Asia & the Pacific  
Title  Next In Tech: China's Wager: Pulling Energy From the Ocean  
Author  Hall, Simon  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.5  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Apr 1, 2014  
Section  Technology  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1511498081  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1511498081?accountid=14902  

Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 323 of 376 


Corporate News: Exxon Defends Value of Reserves 
Gilbert, Daniel.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]01 Apr 2014: B.7. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Corporate+News%3A+Exxon+Defends+Value+of+Reserves&title=Wall+ 04-01&volume=&issue=&spage=B.7&au=Gilbert%2C+Daniel&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Exxon's view came as the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change issued a report Monday that found that global warming is already having an impact and called for steps to slow its effects. 

Full Text 
Exxon Mobil Corp. says future regulations to protect the climate don't threaten the value of its oil and gas reserves, arguing that economies will need the fuels too much to embrace drastic cuts in greenhouse-gas emissions. 
In response to shareholder pressure, the U.S.'s biggest energy company, published two reports Monday affirming that climate change poses a risk to society. But Exxon pushed back against investor concerns that potential restrictions on burning fossil fuels will make it too expensive for Exxon to pump its oil and gas, calling such a scenario "highly unlikely." 
"We are confident that none of our hydrocarbon reserves are now or will become 'stranded,' " Exxon said in one report published on its website, responding to a request from several sustainability-focused groups representing shareholders. 
Exxon's view came as the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change issued a report Monday that found that global warming is already having an impact and called for steps to slow its effects. 
Separately, the White House last week directed federal agencies to limit greenhouse-gas emissions as part of a broader effort to tackle climate change. 
Investors will continue to push the company to account for increased restrictions on carbon emissions, said Andrew Logan of Ceres, an advocacy group that helped coordinate proposals seeking disclosure on climate change. 
Exxon has long assumed that regulations will make it more expensive to produce oil and gas, and estimates a cost of $80 a ton of carbon emissions by 2040 in Western countries. But the company said that cutting such emissions by 80% through that time frame, a target some scientists say is needed to slow global warming, would cost the average U.S. household almost $2,350 a year in additional energy expenses. 
While such a scenario is possible, Exxon said, "it is difficult to envision governments choosing this path in light of the negative implications for economic growth and prosperity that such a course poses." 
The Irving, Texas-based oil company estimates that the world will consume 35% more energy in 2040 than today and contends renewable sources of energy, like wind and solar power, aren't enough to meet that demand. Instead, Exxon is focusing on burning energy more efficiently and cutting emissions. 
Footnoted in the two reports are hints of how Exxon plans to use concerns over climate to its advantage, by promoting natural gas as a fuel that gives off fewer emissions than coal or oil. The U.S.'s biggest gas producer, Exxon is among several companies seeking permits to export the fuel abroad where prices are higher. 
Allowing U.S. companies to export domestic gas, Exxon noted, "could further the adoption of this cleaner-burning fuel by countries that currently rely on more carbon-intensive forms of energy." 
Credit: By Daniel Gilbert 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Climate change; 
Emissions; 

Federal regulation; 
Natural gas reserves; 

Oil reserves 


Location 	United States--US 
Company / organization 	Name: Exxon Mobil Corp 

NAICS: 447110, 211111 


Classification  8510: Petroleum industry  
4310: Regulation  
9190: United States  
Title  Corporate News: Exxon Defends Value of Reserves  
Author  Gilbert, Daniel  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.7  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Apr 1, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1511497958  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1511497958?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-20  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 324 of 376 


U.S. News: Obama Orders Tighter Curbs on Methane 
Harder, Amy.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]29 Mar 2014: A.3. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+Obama+Orders+Tighter+Curbs+on+Methane&title=W 03-29&volume=&issue=&spage=A.3&au=Harder%2C+Amy&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The Obama administration on Friday directed several federal agencies to clamp down on emissions of methane, a potent greenhouse gas emitted from natural gas and other industries, fleshing out an initiative that attempts to address environmental concerns without harming the nation's booming natural-gas industry. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration on Friday directed several federal agencies to clamp down on emissions of methane, a potent greenhouse gas emitted from natural gas and other industries, fleshing out an initiative that attempts to address environmental concerns without harming the nation's booming natural-gas industry. 
The White House move is part of President Barack Obama's broader plan announced last June to tackle climate change. The administration's methane strategy reflects a reluctance to commit right now to new federal regulations targeting the natural-gas industry, which could be politically unpopular. New rules could also contradict the administration's rhetoric and actions supporting gas in the past few years, including the Energy Department's conditional approval earlier this week of the seventh U.S. project to export gas. 
Reaction from oil and natural-gas companies was muted, while environmentalists cheered the news. Statements from senior officials at the two trade associations representing producers -- America's Natural Gas Alliance and the American Petroleum Institute -- didn't criticize the administration and instead pointed to how the industry was already and will continue cutting its methane emissions without new regulations. 
As U.S. natural-gas sources have ballooned, environmental groups have worried more about the effects of natural-gas use on climate change. 
The primary component of natural gas is methane, which the administration said has a warming effect on the planet more than 20 times greater than carbon dioxide. Despite mounting skepticism from environmentalists, the administration has supported natural gas as an energy source in part because it puts out far fewer carbon emissions than coal or oil. 
The administration's plan calls for just one new regulation on the natural-gas industry. It leaves until this fall the decision about whether the Environmental Protection Agency -­already the target of Republicans for its rules on coal-fired power plants -- will propose new rules. 
The Interior Department will later this year propose a rule requiring companies to install pipelines and other infrastructure to reduce the amount of natural gas they vent and flare. 
This rule would only apply to production on public lands; however, much of the new gas drilling is conducted on private lands. 
Other parts of the administration's strategy include tougher regulations for cutting methane from landfills and a new program to capture and dispose of waste-mine methane on lands leased by the U.S. 
Credit: By Amy Harder 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Energy policy; 
Coal-fired power plants; 
Environmental protection; 
Industrial plant emissions; 

Methane 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Obama, Barack 
Company / organization 	Name: Americas Natural Gas Alliance 

NAICS: 813910; 

Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 
NAICS:  924110;  
Name:  American Petroleum Institute  
NAICS:  813910, 541820  

Classification  9190: United States  
1530: Natural resources  
1520: Energy policy  
Title  U.S. News: Obama Orders Tighter Curbs on Methane  
Author  Harder, Amy  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.3  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Mar 29, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1511071064  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1511071064?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 325 of 376 


Japan's Answer to Fukushima: Coal --- Many Nuclear Plants Are Too Expensive to Retrofit While Carbon Dioxide Emissions Continue to Climb 
Iwata, Mari.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]28 Mar 2014: B.6. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Japan%27s+Answer+to+Fukushima%3A+Coal+--­+Many+Nuclear+Plants+Are+Too+Expensive+to+Retrofit+While+Carbon+Dioxide+Emissions+Continue+to+Climb&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2014-03­28&volume=&issue=&spage=B.6&au=Iwata%2C+Mari&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Nippon Steel Sumitomo Metal Corp., the nation's largest steelmaker, and Electric Power Development Co. in December set up a joint venture to build and operate a 640­megawatt coal power plant northeast of Tokyo. 

Full Text 
TOKYO-- Japan is turning into a rare bright spot in the world coal market, stepping up coal-fired power generation to replace nuclear plants that went offline after the 2011 Fukushima accident. 
Plans by Japanese companies to spend billions of dollars on new coal-fired plants offer a striking contrast with the U.S., which has effectively blocked new coal plants using existing technology over concerns about global warming. And they show how deeply Japan's energy picture has changed since the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami caused meltdowns at Fukushima Daiichi nuclear reactors. 
On Thursday, Kyushu Electric Power Co. said it would restart a long-frozen project to build a one-gigawatt coal-fired unit in southern Japan. Other utilities including Tokyo Electric Power Co. have announced similar plans for more coal-fired power. 
If the plans all come to fruition, Japan's coal-fired power capacity would increase to around 47 gigawatts over the next decade or so, up 21% from the time right before the Fukushima accident. 
All 48 of Japan's nuclear-power plants are currently offline. While regulators are expected to allow several to restart this year and next, many older plants are too expensive to retrofit to meet tightened safety standards. 
Imported natural gas is filling some of the gap, but it is costly. Solar power and residential fuel cells still account for a fraction of Japan's power demand. That leaves coal, which is relatively inexpensive, readily available from nations such as Australia and usable 24 hours a day. 
"We can import coal from politically stable countries, and its prices are very competitive," said Hiroya Harada, general manager of Tohoku Electric Power Co.'s Tokyo branch. He spoke at a news conference Thursday where Tohoku Electric said it would seek contracts for 1.2 gigawatts of fossil-fuel-fired power, half of which it expects to come from coal. 
The downside is the effect on the environment. Japan's coal use has already been edging higher since the Fukushima accident and as a result, the nation's carbon dioxide emissions climbed to their second-highest level on record in the year ended March 2013. 
Japan is the second-largest coal importer in the world after China, which has been looking for alternatives because of choking air pollution caused in part by coal-fired power plants. Unlike China, which has large domestic coal supplies, Japan must import almost all of its coal. 
In 2013, Japan's imports of coal for power production rose 1.3% to 109 million metric tons, after a 6.4% rise in 2012, according to customs data, and imports continued rising in the first two months of 2014. 
The plans by Japanese power companies are good news for international coal suppliers struggling with sluggish demand in China and elsewhere. Switzerland-based Glencore Xstrata PLC has been in talks with Tohoku Electric about pricing for deliveries starting in April, according to traders at Tokyo-based trading companies. Representatives of Glencore Xstrata and Tohoku Electric declined to comment. 
Power-industry deregulation taking effect in Japan in the next few years has prompted several companies outside of the traditional utility industry to look at coal-fired power. 
Earlier this month, Osaka Gas Co. said it would build a 149-megawatt coal power station in central Japan. Nippon Steel Sumitomo Metal Corp., the nation's largest steelmaker, and Electric Power Development Co. in December set up a joint venture to build and operate a 640-megawatt coal power plant northeast of Tokyo. 
Like the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Japan's Ministry of Environment has long frowned on coal-fired power and strongly opposed new plants. But it yielded early last year after rising natural-gas imports and a weaker yen caused electricity prices to surge. 
"Coal-fired power plants are much more efficient compared with the past," said Tomomichi Akuta, an economist at a research arm of Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. "Using cheap coal would save money that can be invested in new technologies to cut emissions." 
Kanna Mitsuta of Friends of the Earth Japan said her group was more strongly opposed to nuclear power than to coal but believed Japan should move quickly to renewable power. "We have been worried that global warming seems to be forgotten recently," she said. 
Credit: By Mari Iwata 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Coal-fired power plants  
Location  Japan  
Classification  9179: Asia & the Pacific  
8500: Extractive industries  
Title  Japan's Answer to Fukushima: Coal --- Many Nuclear Plants Are Too Expensive to Retrofit While  
Carbon Dioxide Emissions Continue to Climb  
Author  Iwata, Mari  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.6  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Mar 28, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1510675992  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1510675992?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 326 of 376 


The Democratic Civil War Over Energy 
Strassel, Kimberley A.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]21 Mar 2014: A.11. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=The+Democratic+Civil+War+Over+Energy&title=Wall+Street+Journa 03-21&volume=&issue=&spage=A.11&au=Strassel%2C+Kimberley+A&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Since this president cares about nothing so much as winning elections, he's sat on the pipeline for five years. With all this Democratic love for natural gas, Ms. Landrieu was hard pressed to get attention for her own announcement that she is devoting her first hearing as new chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee to the benefits of more oil and gas exports. 

Full Text 
The environmental left is seeing Democrats the Keystone XL pipeline, and raising them natural-gas exports. The question of who folds on this issue will play big in this midterm election year. 
A split is growing in the Democratic Party, one that ought to rival the divisions on the right that the headlines trumpet. Greens are increasingly bitter about President Obama -­annoyed that he's dropped climate legislation, scaled back green subsidies, ignored fracking. They've channeled their frustration into the fight against Keystone, warning that they'll turn their significant money and resources against Mr. Obama's party if the president approves more "dirty oil." Since this president cares about nothing so much as winning elections, he's sat on the pipeline for five years. 
Emboldened, the eco-warriors are now dramatically upping the stakes, demanding that Democrats turn against the natural-gas revolution that has propped up the Obama economy. More than a thousand activists flooded last month to a Keystone-like rally protesting Cove Point, a Maryland facility that is due to be the first to export liquefied natural gas. The Ukraine crisis and calls for greater gas exports have given the issue a big new lift. On Wednesday 16 prominent green groups sent an open letter to Mr. Obama demanding he essentially shut down Cove Point. 
The letter was revealing for its honesty. Not so long ago enviros endorsed natural gas as a cleaner alternative to coal or oil. Most limited themselves to calling for "better" industry practices, or to solely opposing exports. But as the gas rush has grown, threatening their solar-and-windmill nirvana, greens now openly decry drilling, chiding Mr. Obama for his "support for hydraulic fracturing" and calling on him to keep "our nation's fossil fuel reserves in the ground." The letter was signed by Bill McKibben, the director of the anti-Keystone outfit 350.org, as well as directors of nearly every major green shop in the country -- the Sierra Club, the Center for Biological Diversity, CREDO and Earthjustice. 
This new demand could not come at a more awkward time for the party. Under fire for ObamaCare and the economy, scores of vulnerable Democrats are rushing to natural gas and drilling as political safe harbors. Supporting fracking allows them to claim they are in favor of more jobs, cheaper energy and rising incomes. Supporting natural-gas exports allows them to look responsive to the Ukraine crisis, or at least more responsive than their unpopular president. It helps, too, that this puts them on the same page as the significant majority of Americans who support more drilling (and pipelines). 
Red-state senate Democrats like Mary Landrieu (La.) and Mark Pryor (Ark.) are these days fighting for pro-energy airtime with colleagues like Colorado's Mark Udall. Mr. Udall, who can usually be found pushing a federal renewable energy mandate, now finds himself facing a likely challenge from Rep. Cory Gardner -- as pro-energy a Republican as they come. When the Ukraine crisis began, Mr. Udall suddenly couldn't move quickly enough to introduce a bill to expand the number of countries to which the U.S. can export natural gas. A Udall spokesman publicly bragged that they'd got their own bill introduced before Mr. Gardner introduced his own. 
Virginia Sen. Mark Warner, who just loves solar, wind and biofuels, but who is also facing an electoral threat from Republican Ed Gillespie, materialized on Wednesday to demand that the Obama Energy Department greenlight more gas export terminals. New Mexico's Tom Udall has embraced more exports, tying it directly to his state's drilling jobs. With all this Democratic love for natural gas, Ms. Landrieu was hard pressed to get attention for her own announcement that she is devoting her first hearing as new chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee to the benefits of more oil and gas exports. 
All this comes on top of the 11 Senate Democrats and 69 House Democrats who have previously voted for Keystone, and the 26 House Democrats who late last year voted to speed approvals of natural gas pipelines. House Republicans intend to hold a vote on Mr. Gardner's bill to expedite approval of export terminals. Expect a significant Democratic turnout. 
Green groups have mostly avoided targeting vulnerable Democrats; even billionaire Tom Steyer backed away from suggestions he might go after Ms. Landrieu on climate change. But this restraint is partly due to the fact that the White House hasn't openly defied him on Keystone. 
The left's new fracking demand is not so easily avoidable. The White House is technically in favor of natural gas, has reaped its environmental and economic upside, and its candidates are coalescing around drilling and export expansion. The president's green troops now demand an end to this. To crack down on fracking would be economically and politically dumb. Not cracking down risks tipping his green base over the edge. 
Mr. Obama has for years politically danced around the U.S. natural gas boom, but Mr. McKibben & Co. are now forcing the issue. The president may not be able to punt on this one. 
(See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: No Democratic Civil War on Energy" -- WSJ April 1st, 2014) 
Credit: By Kimberley A. Strassel 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Natural gas; Exports; Pipelines; Hydraulic fracturing; US exports; Energy policy; Congressional elections  
Location  Ukraine  
People  Obama, Barack  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Center for Biological Diversity 813312;  
Name: NAICS:  Sierra Club 813312;  
Name: NAICS:  Democratic Party 813940  
Classification  9190: United States 1210: Politics & political behavior 1520: Energy policy  
Title  The Democratic Civil War Over Energy  
Author  Strassel, Kimberley A  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.11  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Mar 21, 2014  
column  Potomac Watch  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1508924455  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1508924455?accountid=14902  

Copyright 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Last updated 2017-11-20 
Database US Newsstream 
document 327 of 376 


U.S. News --- CAPITAL JOURNAL: Energy Exports as a Foreign-Policy Tool 
Seib, Gerald F.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]11 Mar 2014: A.4. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News+--­+CAPITAL+JOURNAL%3A+Energy+Exports+as+a+Foreign-Policy+Tool&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2014-03­11&volume=&issue=&spage=A.4&au=Seib%2C+Gerald+F&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
[...]the U.S. has the opportunity now to overturn decades of outdated policy and lift a virtual ban on crude oil exports. 

Full Text 
For a sagging president and a discredited Congress, the Ukraine crisis actually could be a blessing in disguise. It gives them a chance to do something big: Start a historically significant drive to transform's America's energy picture. 
Russia's biggest leverage in its attempt to keep Ukraine in its orbit and annex the Crimean peninsula is that Ukraine and its potential allies elsewhere in Europe still depend on Russian natural gas. 
But Russia's long-term edge may well decline if the U.S. and other Western powers play their cards right. The U.S. is on its way to becoming a net exporter of natural gas, and potentially a net exporter of crude oil as well. So the energy weapon that has been used so effectively against the U.S. in the last half century could easily change hands with the right kinds of American action. 
Moreover, the psychological effects could kick in immediately, if the U.S. convinces the world it is serious. Thus can an American drive for real energy independence be a game-changer economically as well as strategically. 
That's where the president and Congress come in. Energy trends change slowly, but a bold, bipartisan statement now of American intentions could have outsize impact by building confidence. And, let's face it, the policy-making machinery in Washington isn't doing anything else all that meaningful this year, so the decks are cleared for meaningful bipartisan action. 
Invoking the Manhattan Project -- the rush to develop nuclear arms in World War II -- and the race to the moon in the 1960s has become a trite practice, but the analogies actually could apply here. Just as those were nonpartisan, patriotic drives, so could be a campaign to develop an energy position so robust that Washington actually could step up to help its friends at crucial moments such as this. 
Simply look at trend lines now to see what is possible. Data from the Energy Information Administration indicate that the U.S. imported 8% of its net natural gas needs in 2011. By 2019, thanks in large measure to the shale-gas boom, the lines will cross and U.S. production will outpace domestic consumption; the U.S. would become a net exporter of natural gas. And by 2040, the U.S. is projected to be exporting 3.6 trillion cubic feet of gas annually, or about 12% of its production. 
In other words, a transformation already is under way. The policy trick is to accelerate and solidify it. Much as the best time to fix a roof is when the sun is shining, so the time to lock in a different energy situation is when things are trending well already. Ukraine can help policy makers cement that sentiment. 
In political terms, the best thing is that there is something for both parties and all ideologies to like here. Yes, there is an obvious and significant split between left and right on the use of carbon fuels and the global-warming implications, and U.S. firms that are big energy users may resist export policies that they think might put upward pressure on their prices. But a robust all-of-the-above energy policy -- to which President Barack Obama and Republican leaders alike have at least paid lip service -- could go a long way to diminishing that problem. 
Such an effort could easily start with administration approval of the Keystone XL pipeline, opening a new path to carry oil from Canada's tar sands to the Midwest and Gulf of Mexico coast for refining. A strong case can be made that this oil will be extracted and used whether this pipeline is built or not, and that all alternate uses of the oil would be less efficient and ultimately more damaging to the environment. 
If there is a true spirit of national determination on the energy front, pipeline proponents could in return offer to support efforts to lock in federal support for more research into alternative energy sources. Yes, the results of federal backing for green energy have hardly been stellar, but the upside potential for a new bipartisan effort remains big. 
Meantime, House Republicans have been arguing that extending the natural-gas boom requires locking in some certainty about federal regulations of drilling and transporting the gas. A comprehensive package doing that could include some federal dollars to help determine the safest ways to extract and use natural gas, which is, in the long run, a fuel with far less global-warming implications than is coal. 
Finally, the U.S. has the opportunity now to overturn decades of outdated policy and lift a virtual ban on crude oil exports. 
As economic policy, such changes make sense. As national-security strategy, they would win the strong backing of supporters of Israel eager to end once and for all dependence on Arab and Iranian oil. As part of a drive to change the world, they just might rouse a nation to action. 
Credit: By Gerald F. Seib 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  US exports;  
Natural gas;  
Energy policy  
Location  United States--US  
Classification  1510: Energy resources  
1300: International trade & foreign investment  
9190: United States  
Title  U.S. News --- CAPITAL JOURNAL: Energy Exports as a Foreign-Policy Tool  
Author  Seib, Gerald F  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.4  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Mar 11, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1505450456  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1505450456?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 328 of 376 


U.S. News: Rare Detente: New EPA Chief and Industry --- Executives Say Gina McCarthy's Willingness to Listen -- and Make Concessions -- Sets a Different Tone on Regulations 
Lee, Carol E.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]07 Mar 2014: A.4. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+Rare+Detente%3A+New+EPA+Chief+and+Industry+­--+Executives+Say+Gina+McCarthy%27s+Willingness+to+Listen+--+and+Make+Concessions+-­+Sets+a+Different+Tone+on+Regulations&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2014-03­07&volume=&issue=&spage=A.4&au=Lee%2C+Carol+E&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
U.S. energy companies don't see eye to eye with the Obama administration's Environmental Protection Agency. Mr. Inhofe hosted two meetings last year between Ms. McCarthy and executives of Devon Energy Corp. They told Ms. McCarthy the EPA was overestimating the level of greenhouse-gas emissions from hydraulically fracked wells in an annual report to the United Nations. 

Full Text 
U.S. energy companies don't see eye to eye with the Obama administration's Environmental Protection Agency. But for the first time in years, they have begun to fashion something resembling a working relationship. 
On issues such as measuring the impact of hydraulic fracturing and clamping down on emissions from power plants, the EPA's new chief, Gina McCarthy, has navigated the inherently fraught relationship between regulators and industry without becoming the political lightning rod her predecessor was. 
It isn't Ms. McCarthy's policies that make the difference -- executives dislike them -- but her style, in particular a willingness to make concessions that render regulations relatively more palatable, the executives say. 
"We can argue like cats and dogs but we understand where we're both coming from," said Charles Drevna, president of American Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers, who is almost always at odds with Ms. McCarthy's policy agenda. 
The coming months will test Ms. McCarthy's ability to remain out of the political cross hairs. The EPA is set to issue new regulations for power plants in June. Meantime, President Barack Obama is faced with a decision on whether to allow the construction of the Keystone XL oil pipeline, which is strongly opposed by environmentalists. 
The EPA, long a target of Republican critics, is also the tip of the spear in Mr. Obama's quest to shape policy in his second term by going around Congress, in this case to enact regulations relating to climate change. 
Ross Eisenberg, vice president of energy and resources policy at the National Association of Manufacturers, credits Ms. McCarthy with a change in tone, but his praise goes only so far. He said the EPA "really did engage constructively" when it came to regulating mercury emissions from power plants. But with greenhouse gasses, "To date, frankly, they're not." 
Several utility companies complained in 2012 that they couldn't comply with a three- year deadline to meet new standards for discharge of mercury and some other toxins. They suggested an alternative to how the EPA was seeking to limit emissions, and argued it was unnecessary for plants to monitor acid gases if they already monitored for sulfur dioxide, which performs the same function. 
Ms. McCarthy held a series of discussions and identified a pathway for the EPA to extend the time limit for compliance for up to five years. She made the industry's requested change to the emissions limit, which is estimated to cut the cost of compliance by up to $700 million. The EPA also set alternative standards for sulfur dioxide so a plant with a sulfur-dioxide monitor could avoid the cost of monitoring acid gases. 
Under Ms. McCarthy's predecessor, Lisa Jackson, the EPA faced consistent criticism. Mitt Romney, Mr. Obama's Republican challenger in the 2012 election -- and Ms. McCarthy's former boss -- called for Ms. Jackson to be fired over rising gas prices. 
People who have worked with both EPA chiefs say there was tension over policy issues and management style. Ms. Jackson was a favorite among environmental groups. Ms. McCarthy, who worked for Mr. Romney when he was governor of Massachusetts and was an assistant administrator under Ms. Jackson, gives industry leaders the impression she stands up to that key Democratic constituency. 
"I don't think Gina says anything different to me than she would to the head of an environmental group," said Dave McCurdy, president of the American Gas Association. 
David Goldston, director of government affairs at the Natural Resources Defense Council, said Ms. McCarthy is a straight-shooter. He said she has been "strong and effective" at the EPA even if his group would have liked the agency to go further on some regulations. 
Ms. Jackson didn't respond to a request for an interview. 
Ms. McCarthy sidestepped questions of where she disagreed with her predecessor and said she has "no beef with her." 
She said she thinks part of her appeal to traditional EPA adversaries is that she doesn't consider herself an "advocate" for any particular outcome. "The difference with me is I'm willing to moderate that so that I can take everybody else with me. I don't go for the perfect or the most; I go for the practical." 
To accomplish her goals she employs a gritty pragmatism some say can come off as overly tough. Just 5 feet 2 inches tall, her sense of humor employs a liberal use of four-letter words. 
Sen. James Inhofe (R., Okla.), a longtime and outspoken EPA critic, said he has been won over by Ms. McCarthy's work. 
Mr. Inhofe hosted two meetings last year between Ms. McCarthy and executives of Devon Energy Corp. They told Ms. McCarthy the EPA was overestimating the level of greenhouse-gas emissions from hydraulically fracked wells in an annual report to the United Nations. 
The executives presented alternative methods for the calculations. They became the basis for Ms. McCarthy's proposed change in 2014 in how the EPA will measure such emissions. 
"She sat down and made modifications to the rule, and that was very helpful," Mr. Inhofe said. "You don't get that if you have a relationship of hostility." 
On Her Plate 
Pending EPA regulations could test Gina McCarthy's efforts to incorporate industry input: 

1.
 Power Plant Carbon Standards 
These controversial rules would control carbon-dioxide emissions from new and existing power plants. They are key to President Obama's climate agenda. 
Status: The EPA proposed draft standards for new power plants in September 2013 and is due to propose rules for existing plants in June. 


2.
 Cooling Water Structures 
This rule would require power plants to install devices that prevent fish and other aquatic life from being killed in cooling-water structures. 
Status: The EPA hopes to finalize the rule by April. 


3.
 Coal-Ash Regulations 
The rule would determine whether this byproduct of coal-fired power plants should be labeled a hazardous waste. 
Status: The EPA hopes to finalize the rule by year's end. 


4.
 Toxic-Metal Discharge 
This rule would set the first-ever U.S. limit on toxic-metal discharge into waterways by power plants. 
Status: The EPA proposed the rule in June 2013 and expects to finalize it in 2015. 


5.
 Oil and Natural-Gas Carbon 
The Clean Air Act requires the EPA to regulate carbon-dioxide discharge everywhere, including from oil and natural-gas refineries. 
Status: The EPA promised to release draft rules in 2011 and final ones in November 2012, but neither deadline was met. 
Credit: By Carol E. Lee 



(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 


Details 
Subject 	Environmental protection; 
Environmental regulations; 

Industrial plant emissions; 

Pipelines; 
Business government relations; 
Hydraulic fracturing; 
Management styles 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Drevna, Charles; Eisenberg, Ross; Jackson, Lisa P; McCarthy, Gina 
Company / organization 	Name: Congress 

NAICS: 921120; 

Name: American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers NAICS: 813910; 
Name: National Association of Manufacturers NAICS: 813910; 
Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA NAICS: 924110 
Classification  1540: Pollution control  
2200: Managerial skills  
2430: Business-government relations  
4310: Regulation  
9190: United States  
Title  U.S. News: Rare Detente: New EPA Chief and Industry --- Executives Say Gina McCarthy's  
Willingness to Listen -- and Make Concessions -- Sets a Different Tone on Regulations  
Author  Lee, Carol E  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.4  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Mar 7, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1504716655  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1504716655?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-20  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 329 of 376 


Unusual Allies on Green Legislation 
Krupp, Fred; Davidson, Charles.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]06 Mar 2014: A.15. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Unusual+Allies+on+Green+Legislation&title=Wall+Street+Journal&is 03-06&volume=&issue=&spage=A.15&au=Krupp%2C+Fred%3BDavidson%2C+Charles&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
In Colorado late last year, our organizations, Noble Energy and Environmental Defense Fund, came together with two of the state's other largest energy producers, Anadarko Petroleum Corp. and Encana Corp., to support new state air regulations -- the strongest rules governing oil and natural gas emissions in the U.S. We believe this rare and effective collaboration between what some might call unlikely allies represents a model for others to follow when developing regulations to effectively address air quality and climate change. [...]with burgeoning new supplies of shale gas reducing prices for the resource, the nation has seen a shift from coal to natural gas for electricity generation -- a transition that has helped reduce carbon-dioxide emissions in the U.S. to the lowest levels since 1992. 

Full Text 
In Colorado late last year, our organizations, Noble Energy and Environmental Defense Fund, came together with two of the state's other largest energy producers, Anadarko Petroleum Corp. and Encana Corp., to support new state air regulations -- the strongest rules governing oil and natural gas emissions in the U.S. We believe this rare and effective collaboration between what some might call unlikely allies represents a model for others to follow when developing regulations to effectively address air quality and climate change. 
After input from a wide range of stakeholders -- from local communities to other environmental groups and oil and natural-gas companies -- the Colorado Air Quality Control Commission adopted the new rules on Feb. 23 with minimal changes. The rules will protect air quality and public health, while enabling responsible, economic energy development. Adoption of these rules sends a clear message: Americans can have the energy they need, the economy they want, and the environment they deserve. 
Natural gas is an abundant energy resource and economic driver for Colorado and the nation that offers promise from a climate perspective. When burned, natural gas produces about half the carbon dioxide of coal, and far fewer conventional pollutants. And with burgeoning new supplies of shale gas reducing prices for the resource, the nation has seen a shift from coal to natural gas for electricity generation -- a transition that has helped reduce carbon-dioxide emissions in the U.S. to the lowest levels since 1992. 
However, the cleaner-burning advantage of natural gas can be undermined by venting and leaks in equipment used to produce and transport it. Natural gas is primarily methane, a powerful greenhouse gas, and contains volatile organic compounds that can cause smog. This pollution is one reason there has been opposition to oil and natural-gas development around the country. Yet in Colorado, environmental, industry and state representatives have demonstrated it is possible to work together to agree on strong safeguards and then put them in place, even over the opposition of those who say the rules go too far, or not far enough. 
No regulation will please everybody. But keeping methane in the pipe and out of the air is the right thing to do. Colorado's newly adopted rules set forth science-based, common-sense emissions-reduction measures. They will help the state curb tens of thousands of tons of air pollution every year -- equivalent to taking every vehicle in Colorado off the road. And they include several "firsts": 
-- Direct regulation of methane (some previous rules achieved methane reduction as a co-benefit of reducing other pollutants, but it was never targeted directly until now). 
-- Dramatic reductions in "fugitive" emissions (equipment leaks) through the nation's strongest leak-detection and repair program, which includes requirements for monthly inspections at the largest sources. 
-- Statewide requirements that apply not only to new wells but also to existing sources, which will be retrofitted with low-emitting equipment. 
-- Statewide requirements to target reductions from underregulated well-maintenance activities such as "liquids unloading," when producing wells are cleared of water and other liquids inhibiting the flow of natural gas. 
Colorado already requires the state's oil and natural gas producers to use technologies to control hydrocarbon emissions during the well-completion phase, rather than vent emissions as is allowed elsewhere in the U.S. The new rules build on that important foundation. 
The members of the Air Quality Control Commission deserve enormous credit for the integrity and strength of the rules. So does Gov. John Hickenlooper for his vision and leadership in building a collaborative process that developed something extraordinary for the state and its citizens. 
We signed up to actively participate in this process because it's the right thing to do for our communities, our economy and our way of life. We believe that energy companies have a responsibility to minimize risks and adopt leading practices. Industry, activists and the state have an obligation to ensure that companies develop, produce and transport oil and natural gas in the most responsible manner. 
This collaborative effort is evidence of a new way of thinking and of doing business that can have meaningful implications for America's energy future. Call it the Colorado can-do mind-set. It shows we're serious about working together to create a healthier climate for business and the environment, not just in Colorado, but throughout our increasingly energy-independent country. 
Mr. Krupp is president of the Environmental Defense Fund. Mr. Davidson is chairman and CEO of Noble Energy. 
Credit: By Fred Krupp and Charles Davidson 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Emissions; Air pollution; Quality control; Regulation; Volatile organic compounds--VOCs; Electricity generation; Outdoor air quality; Energy policy  
Location  United States--US; Colorado  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Anadarko Petroleum Corp 211111;  
Name: NAICS:  Noble Energy Inc 211111;  
Name: NAICS:  Environmental Defense Fund 541720, 813312  
Title  Unusual Allies on Green Legislation  
Author  Krupp, Fred; Davidson, Charles  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.15  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Mar 6, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1504362656  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1504362656?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  

Database US Newsstream 
document 330 of 376 


Obama and the 'Little Guy' 
Melloan, George.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]28 Feb 2014: A.13. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Obama+and+the+%27Little+Guy%27&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn= 02-28&volume=&issue=&spage=A.13&au=Melloan%2C+George&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
According to Electric Power Monthly, a publication of the U.S. Energy Information Administration, the average cost of a kilowatt-hour last November was 12.09 cents, up 2.9% from 11.75 a year earlier and 39% from 8.72 in 2003. Utility use of cheap coal and petroleum is declining as Mr. Obama's Environmental Protection Agency applies ever more stringent controls on carbon emissions, and as the president showers subsidies on "renewable" sources like wind and solar. 

Full Text 
President Obama's recent disquisitions on "income inequality," foretelling another Democratic class-warfare campaign in the fall, brought to mind that delightfully satirical Coen Brothers comedy set in the 1930s South, "O Brother, Where Art Thou?" A candidate for governor campaigns with a dwarf at his side to advertise his support for the "little man." An aide to the worried incumbent suggests that their campaign counter with a smaller dwarf. 
Ever since politicians figured out that the "little guy" is where the votes are, they have employed variations of the "O Brother" gambit. Have you ever heard a politician declare that he will fight for the rich and powerful? Still, championing the little guy has generally worked better for Democrats than for Republicans, probably because the Democrats are more ardent promoters of the welfare state. 
Yet how well has Mr. Obama's presidency served the little guy? Not very well. Inequality is best measured not by wage levels, which can be deceptive, but by living standards. Whether living standards are lower than they should be due to governmental idiocies is the best test of political performance. 
To be sure, Mr. Obama's temporary reduction in the payroll tax to 4.2% from 6.2% in 2011 and 2012 benefited little guys, saving $1,000 for someone earning $50,000 a year. But it expired in January 2013 and few in Washington, least of all Mr. Obama, wanted to extend it. 
Costs originating from government policies that are passed along to the public hit the little guy hardest. A boost in the light bill can be shrugged off by someone making $100,000, but not for the $25,000 earner. A coal-industry study, admittedly self-serving but hardly challengeable, says that energy takes nearly a quarter of the budget of a household earning $20,000 to $30,000 but less than 10% of a $50,000 income. Mr. Obama's war on fossil fuels has sent energy costs up. 
According to Electric Power Monthly, a publication of the U.S. Energy Information Administration, the average cost of a kilowatt-hour last November was 12.09 cents, up 2.9% from 11.75 a year earlier and 39% from 8.72 in 2003. Utility use of cheap coal and petroleum is declining as Mr. Obama's Environmental Protection Agency applies ever more stringent controls on carbon emissions, and as the president showers subsidies on "renewable" sources like wind and solar. The use of renewables other than hydro was up 36.4% in November from a year earlier. Relatively inefficient renewables raise costs. 
U.S. energy policy is driven by the environmental lobby, backed by people who are far better-heeled and politically active than the average Joe. For years, Al Gore, the New York Times, the United Nations, etc., have claimed that industrial carbon-dioxide emissions are a threat to the planet. The war on carbon dioxide (a gas without which, incidentally, there would be no life on Earth) is world-wide -- and bad news for the bills-paying little guy everywhere -- dating back to the formation of the U.N.'s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change in the 1980s. 
Germany's slavish adherence to U.N. dicta has nearly wrecked its energy industry over the past few years. In the U.K., as noted by British author Rupert Darwall in his first-rate book, "The Age of Global Warming" (2013), anti-carbon policies have moved the U.K. from the lowest to the highest electricity costs in Europe. The resulting capital costs alone were estimated at $160 billion annually before the 2008 recession. 
If not for congressional resistance, Mr. Obama would have sent the U.S. head over heels as well, but he has done enough on his own and he's still trying. That nearly 40% rise in the cost of electricity hits the little guy on the noggin. 
The hundreds of billions spent by governments, industry and consumers over the years to address climate change were in response to a computer model that purported to show that increasing carbon-dioxide emissions would cause the planet to warm, eventually disastrously. Actual observations have not borne out the model. There has been almost no observable warming in the past 15 years. 
How else has the Obama presidency zapped the little guy in his wallet? Consider what it has meant for the Federal Reserve to hold interest rates at near zero, to the great satisfaction of a president enjoying rock-bottom costs for financing the huge federal deficit caused by his spending habits. For the little guy, particularly the elderly little guy who can get only a 1% return on his money-market account, it means losing money because the inflation rate is higher. 
A fair market return on his savings would yield him nearly 5% (3% plus inflation) or nearly $500 on a $10,000 account. That is not nothing for a family with a tight budget. He has the option of venturing into the stock market, but that has been made dangerous too by the same Fed policy. When the Fed lets the air out of the asset bubble it has created and stocks sink to a more normal level, the little guy could lose once again. 
The percentage of the workforce holding jobs is down to 63.2%, the lowest since 1978, when the U.S. was in the depths of stagflation. Partly this may be due to the Fed's low interest rates, which could be costing jobs. James Grant, whose newsletter has for years provided valuable securities-market insights, notes that low borrowing costs may be inducing corporations to borrow and buy capital equipment as a substitute for labor. 
Even many members of the "little guy" demographic who have jobs have lost the health insurance that they were promised would be theirs if they "liked" it. Now they are faced with reinsuring at ObamaCare rates, which in some cases are shockingly higher. The ObamaCare fiasco was one more burden that the little guy didn't need. 
This fall, when Republican candidates ask the "Are you better off now . . . " question of little-guy voters, the answer may not be such a big surprise. 
Mr. Melloan, a former columnist and deputy editor of the Journal editorial page, is the author of "The Great Money Binge: Spending Our Way to Socialism" (Simon & Schuster, 2009). 
(See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: Lack of Consensus and the Little Guy" -- WSJ March 11, 2014) 
Credit: By George Melloan 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Emissions; 

Energy management; 
Energy policy; 
Climate change; 
Carbon; 
Electricity distribution; 
Capital costs; 

Income inequality 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Obama, Barack 
Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 

NAICS: 924110 


Title 	Obama and the 'Little Guy' 
Author 	Melloan, George 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.13 
Publication year 	2014 
Publication date 	Feb 28, 2014 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 	00999660 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	News 
ProQuest document ID 	1502965922 
Document URL 	https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1502965922?accountid=14902 
Copyright (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Last updated 2017-11-21 
Database US Newsstream 
document 331 of 376 


Corporate News: Nuclear Plants to Get Loan Guarantees 
Mundy, Alicia.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]19 Feb 2014: B.7. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Corporate+News%3A+Nuclear+Plants+to+Get+Loan+Guarantees&title= 02-19&volume=&issue=&spage=B.7&au=Mundy%2C+Alicia&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The strategy, which includes natural gas, oil, coal, solar and renewable fuels, has raised concerns among some environmental groups who want Mr. Obama to focus on renewable energy such as solar and wind power. 

Full Text 
Corrections & Amplifications 
Friends of the Earth opposes the construction of new nuclear-power reactors because of safety concerns. A Corporate News article on Wednesday about loan guarantees for nuclear plants incorrectly cited climate-change concerns as the reason for the environmental group's opposition. 
(WSJ Feb. 25, 2014) 
WASHINGTON -- The Energy Department plans to grant final approval this week of $6.5 billion in loan guarantees for two nuclear reactors under construction in Georgia by a consortium led by Southern Co. 
The money is part of an $8.3 billion package of loan guarantees that the federal government conditionally approved in 2010. The reactors won regulatory approval in 2012 -­the first nuclear power plants to clear the approval process since 1978, a year before the accident at Three Mile Island in Pennsylvania. 
Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz plans to announce the loan deal at a speech at the National Press Club in Washington on Wednesday, according to two people familiar with the project. 
Spokesmen for Southern and the Energy Department declined to comment. 
The reactors will be part of the Vogtle electricity generating facility outside of Waynesboro, Ga., where two nuclear reactors already operate. 
The loan guarantees show that the White House is committed to the "all of the above" energy policy that President Barack Obama touted in his State of the Union speech last month, said a person familiar with the project. 
The strategy, which includes natural gas, oil, coal, solar and renewable fuels, has raised concerns among some environmental groups who want Mr. Obama to focus on renewable energy such as solar and wind power. Friends of the Earth said they are opposed to building nuclear power plants because such energy sources can contribute to climate change. 
The overall cost for the new reactors at the Vogtle site is estimated at $14 billion. The remaining $1.8 billion in loan guarantees may be completed soon, a person familiar with the project said. 
Credit: By Alicia Mundy 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Environmental protection; 
Energy policy; 
Regulatory approval; 
Nuclear reactors; 
Guaranteed loans 


Location 	Three Mile Island; Pennsylvania; Georgia 
People 	Obama, Barack; Moniz, Ernest J 
Company / organization 	Name: Department of Energy 

NAICS: 926130; 

Name: Southern Co NAICS: 221112, 221122 
Classification  2430: Business-government relations  
3100: Capital & debt management  
4310: Regulation  
8340: Electric, water & gas utilities  
9190: United States  
Title  Corporate News: Nuclear Plants to Get Loan Guarantees  
Author  Mundy, Alicia  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.7  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Feb 19, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1499504754  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1499504754?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 332 of 376 


Global Finance: Banks Feel Heat on Climate-Change Issue --- Socially Minded Investors Seek Disclosures on Loans to Companies That Contribute to Greenhouse-Gas Emissions 
Ackerman, Andrew.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]06 Feb 2014: C.3. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Global+Finance%3A+Banks+Feel+Heat+on+Climate­Change+Issue+---+Socially+Minded+Investors+Seek+Disclosures+on+Loans+to+Companies+That+Contribute+to+Greenhouse­Gas+Emissions&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2014-02­06&volume=&issue=&spage=C.3&au=Ackerman%2C+Andrew&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The pressure on banks gained traction after a Securities and Exchange Commission decision last year allowed shareholders to advance a climate-change resolution at PNC Financial Services Group Inc. Agency staff denied PNC's request to ignore a proposal that sought to shed light on the Pittsburgh-based bank's role as a lender to the coal industry in Appalachia, saying the resolution "focuses on the significant policy issue of climate change." 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- Socially minded investors are taking on a new target in their fight against climate change: big banks. 
Some banks, including Bank of America Corp. and J.P. Morgan Chase & Co., are being pressed to disclose more about lending to firms that contribute to greenhouse-gas emissions. 
These investors have filed nonbinding shareholder resolutions urging at least four banks to shed more light on loans they make to oil, gas, coal and other companies whose practices create carbon emissions. They are also pressing the banks to develop strategies to address climate-change risks. 
The efforts are having an impact: Investors last week withdrew a climate-related resolution filed with Capital One Financial Corp, after it agreed to increase climate-related disclosures. 
Last year, investors withdrew a similar proposal submitted to J.P. Morgan when it agreed to flesh out an existing strategy for "environmental and social risk policy." It plans to release the document by the end of March. 
The pressure on banks gained traction after a Securities and Exchange Commission decision last year allowed shareholders to advance a climate-change resolution at PNC Financial Services Group Inc. Agency staff denied PNC's request to ignore a proposal that sought to shed light on the Pittsburgh-based bank's role as a lender to the coal industry in Appalachia, saying the resolution "focuses on the significant policy issue of climate change." The nonbinding resolution garnered support from 22.8% of the bank's shareholders at its April annual meeting -- above last year's 18.1% average for climate and energy-related proposals tracked by proxy adviser Glass, Lewis & Co. -- but wasn't adopted by the bank. 
An SEC spokesman said the PNC decision didn't mean every financial company had to consider the issue of climate change. But as annual-meeting season approaches, socially minded investors have expanded their campaign to Bank of America and Capital One and resubmitted the resolution at PNC. They also have pushed insurers to improve climate-risk disclosures in annual filings with state insurance regulators. 
The push could prompt criticism on Capitol Hill, where Republican lawmakers and regulators say shareholder resolutions have become increasingly political and less relevant to average shareholders. They say companies must expend significant resources to challenge such measures and divert resources from their core business. "Special-interest groups are trying to hijack the shareholder-proposal process," said Republican SEC commissioner Daniel Gallagher. 
The investors say banks haven't adequately grappled with climate issues, particularly emissions stemming from loans to oil and gas companies. Regulators released guidance four years ago encouraging all public companies to disclose the effects of climate change on their businesses, but the investors say it hasn't led to an increase in the quality or quantity of the disclosures. 
"The concern is that they're not seeing this as the literal sea change that it is," said Meredith Benton, a portfolio manager at Boston Common Asset Management LLC, which has pushed for the bank disclosures. 
Ceres, a Boston nonprofit focused on climate change, is expected to report Thursday that climate-related disclosures by S&P 500 companies are terse, provide little discussion of "material" issues and fail to quantify impacts or risks. The report, which reviewed filings from 2010 to 2013, urges the SEC to strengthen its guidance. 
SEC officials say they are unlikely to revisit the guidance, which divided the agency's five-member commission along political lines. Last year, SEC Chairman Mary Jo White, an independent, criticized attempts to push "social policy or political change through the SEC's powers of mandatory disclosure." 
Ms. Benton said her firm targeted PNC after the bank declined to substantively discuss the risks posed by its lending to greenhouse-gas emitting firms. She said PNC continues to have significant relationships with mining companies that engage in a technique known as mountaintop removal, despite signaling in 2011 it would curb its lending in the sector. 
A PNC spokeswoman said shareholders "overwhelmingly rejected" last year's measure and declined to comment on its 2014 proxy materials, which won't be completed until mid-March. PNC's board, in a statement of opposition to last year's proposal, said it should focus on managing its banking business rather than spend resources reporting on its indirect funding of greenhouse-gas emissions. 
Credit: By Andrew Ackerman 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Disclosure;  
Corporate finance;  
Emissions;  
Greenhouse gases;  
Climate change;  
Financial services;  
Social investing  
Location  United States--US  
Classification  9190: United States  
8100: Financial services industry  
2410: Social responsibility  
Title  Global Finance: Banks Feel Heat on Climate-Change Issue --- Socially Minded Investors Seek  
Disclosures on Loans to Companies That Contribute to Greenhouse-Gas Emissions  
Author  Ackerman, Andrew  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  C.3  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Feb 6, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1494676579  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1494676579?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 333 of 376 


The Real Climate 'Deniers' Are the Greens 
Bryce, Robert.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]03 Feb 2014: A.15. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=The+Real+Climate+%27Deniers%27+Are+the+Greens&title=Wall+Stre 02-03&volume=&issue=&spage=A.15&au=Bryce%2C+Robert&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
In December 2012, Robert F. Kennedy Jr., a senior attorney for the Natural Resources Defense Council, co-wrote an op-ed in the New York Times in which he claimed that Germany's solar-energy efforts should be copied by the U.S. because a "transition to renewable power could create millions of domestic jobs" and take a "substantial bite" out of America's greenhouse-gas emissions. According to an October report from energy publisher Platts, some 7,300 megawatts of new coal plants will be brought online by next year. 

Full Text 
For years, greens and many on the political left have insisted that widespread adoption of renewable energy will create jobs and stimulate the economy. An example: In September 2008, then-candidate Barack Obama claimed at a speech in Golden, Colo., that his planned investments in "green" energy would create "five million new jobs that pay well and can't ever be outsourced." 
It was all bunk. 
Proof came last month when both the European Union and the German government announced separately that they were both rolling back aggressive subsidies and mandates for renewable energy. The reason: staggering costs. Spain has racked up some $35 billion in debt -- known as the "tariff deficit" -- thanks to excessive renewable-energy subsidies. In Germany, renewable-energy subsidies are now costing German consumers and industry about $32 billion a year. The costs have become so onerous that on Jan. 21 Germany's economy and energy minister Sigmar Gabriel told energy conference attendees in Berlin that his country is risking "dramatic deindustrialization" if it doesn't reduce energy costs. 
In December, the Center for European Policy Studies, a Brussels-based think tank, reported that European steelmakers are paying twice as much for electricity and four times as much for natural gas as their U.S. competitors. In Denmark, that wonderland for wind-energy enthusiasts, residential electricity now costs about 41 cents per kilowatt-hour, more than three times the U.S. average rate. 
Europe's decision to slow down on renewables suggests that the term "climate denier" needs an overhaul. For the past decade or so, this has been the label for anyone who questions climate change models or the forecasts derived from them. But the lesson from Europe is that the environmentalists who have been relentlessly hawking renewables are the real deniers. 
They have denied the costs that renewable energy mandates impose on the European economy. They've denied the environmental benefits of increased natural gas use in the 
U.S. And they continue to deny the difficulty of addressing carbon-dioxide emissions on a global scale. 
In December 2012, Robert F. Kennedy Jr., a senior attorney for the Natural Resources Defense Council, co-wrote an op-ed in the New York Times in which he claimed that Germany's solar-energy efforts should be copied by the U.S. because a "transition to renewable power could create millions of domestic jobs" and take a "substantial bite" out of America's greenhouse-gas emissions. 
If Mr. Kennedy wants to continue cutting those emissions, he should be encouraging the development of shale gas. In 2013, thanks largely to the use of horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing in shale formations, U.S. natural-gas production averaged 70 billion cubic feet a day, a record, and a 41% increase over 2005 levels. Lower-cost gas is reducing the domestic use of coal, which is cutting emissions. The Environmental Protection Agency reports that natural-gas-fired power plants emit about half as much carbon dioxide as comparable coal-fired ones. 
Thanks to the shale revolution, the U.S. is also reducing emissions faster, at far lower cost, than the EU. Between 2005 and 2012, U.S. carbon-dioxide emissions fell by 10.9%, according to the widely cited "BP Statistical Review of World Energy 2013." During the same period the EU's emissions fell by 9.9%, according to the Netherlands Environmental Assessment Agency. 
Nevertheless, Mr. Kennedy denounced natural gas at a visit to Franklin and Marshall College last October, calling it "a catastrophe." Bill McKibben, the founder of the environmental organization 350.org who has advocated enormous reductions in global hydrocarbon use, has made similar declarations. In a Jan. 21 op-ed in Politico that he wrote with Chesapeake Climate Action Network's Mike Tidwell, he said natural gas "needs to stay in the ground" and that it is "just coal by another name." Mr. McKibben's energy prescription? U.S. states should "double and triple their wind and solar mandates." He too believes the U.S. should follow Germany's lead. 
Mr. McKibben is denying the facts. Even though Germany has spent more than $100 billion subsidizing renewables since 2000, the country's coal use is rising, as are its carbon-dioxide emissions, according to the BP Statistical Review. And Germany's coal use may continue to grow as the country turns away from nuclear power. In the wake of the Fukushima disaster in 2011, Germany shut down eight of its nuclear reactors, and it plans to retire the rest by 2022. According to an October report from energy publisher Platts, some 7,300 megawatts of new coal plants will be brought online by next year. 
It's not just Germany. Global coal consumption jumped by about 55% over the past decade as demand for electricity has soared. That consumption is boosting global carbon-dioxide emissions, which have increased by 32% over that period, according to the BP Statistical Review. Relatively small reductions in carbon emissions in Europe or the U.S. won't make a significant difference amid such rapid growth. Since 2005, China alone has increased its carbon-dioxide emissions by about 3.6 billion tons, or about four times the amount Germany emitted in 2012. 
The reality is simple: The U.S. is the world leader in carbon policy. It has cut carbon-dioxide emissions more effectively than the EU while generating an economic boom from the shale revolution. In October 2013, Purdue University energy economist Wallace Tyner estimated that between 2008 and 2035 the shale revolution will add an average of $473 billion a year to the U.S. economy -- or about 3% of current GDP. Using more natural gas in the U.S. sets an example for the rest of the world for economic growth, energy production and carbon dioxide. 
But don't bother trying to convince Messrs. Kennedy and McKibben and their allies. They would rather stay in climate denial. 
Mr. Bryce is a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute. This piece is excerpted from his forthcoming report for the institute on America's energy advantages. 
(See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: Renewables Make Very Good Sense" -- WSJ Feb. 22, 2014) 
Credit: By Robert Bryce 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Emissions; 

Environmental protection; 
Natural gas; 
Energy policy; 
Alternative energy sources 


Location 	United States--US; Germany; Europe 
People 	Obama, Barack 
Company / organization 	Name: New York Times Co 

NAICS: 511110, 511120, 515112, 515120; 


Name: Natural Resources Defense Council NAICS: 813312 
Title 	The Real Climate 'Deniers' Are the Greens 
Author 	Bryce, Robert 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.15 
Publication year 	2014 
Publication date 	Feb 3, 2014 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 	00999660 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	News 
ProQuest document ID 	1493612822 
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1493612822?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 334 of 376 


Obama Seeks To Jump-Start Stalled Plans --- President Vows Executive Action on Wages, Savings; GOP Warns He's Overreaching 
Lee, Carol E; Nicholas, Peter.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]29 Jan 2014: A.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Obama+Seeks+To+Jump-Start+Stalled+Plans+--­+President+Vows+Executive+Action+on+Wages%2C+Savings%3B+GOP+Warns+He%27s+Overreaching&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2014-01­29&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Lee%2C+Carol+E%3BNicholas%2C+Peter&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
President Barack Obama, seeking to restore confidence in his leadership, declared in his State of the Union address Tuesday that he would use executive power to try to narrow the gap between rich and poor and speed the nation's economic recovery. Mr. Obama said Tuesday that he would sign an executive order in the coming weeks to raise the federal minimum wage for employees on new federal contracts, a move that would affect a fraction of low-wage workersjanitors and laundry workers on military bases, among others, the White House said. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- President Barack Obama, seeking to restore confidence in his leadership, declared in his State of the Union address Tuesday that he would use executive power to try to narrow the gap between rich and poor and speed the nation's economic recovery. 
Mr. Obama's speech was essentially a manifesto designed to inject new vigor into his languishing agenda and guide his presidency through the partisan divide in the capital. The goal was to position the president as the champion of struggling Americans fed up with the bickering in Washington, marshaling an array of policy proposals aimed at helping them save more, earn more and find work in a tough economy. 
"Corporate profits and stock prices have rarely been higher, and those at the top have never done better. But average wages have barely budged," Mr. Obama said. "Inequality has deepened. Upward mobility has stalled. . . Our job is to reverse these trends." 
The president told the joint session of Congress that "I'm eager to work with all of you," but his message was clear: "Wherever and whenever I can take steps without legislation to expand opportunity for more American families, that's what I'm going to do." 
In vowing to act unilaterally, Mr. Obama was implicitly pointing to the limits of his ability to enact policy: Executive orders tend to have less reach and less permanence than legislation. Mr. Obama laid out a long list of proposals that would require congressional approval, including raising the minimum wage and changing the immigration system. But getting lawmakers to go along likely would be difficult. 
Republican lawmakers warned of presidential overreach and cast Mr. Obama as having given up on trying to compromise with Congress. Sen. John Thune (R., S.D.) said Mr. Obama "ought to work with us on bipartisan measures," such as making changes to the 2010 health-care law and approving the long-stalled Keystone XL pipeline. "Instead, he's talking about taking unilateral action on a whole range of things." 
Mr. Obama said Tuesday that he would sign an executive order in the coming weeks to raise the federal minimum wage for employees on new federal contracts, a move that would affect a fraction of low-wage workersjanitors and laundry workers on military bases, among others, the White House said. In a second action independent of Congress, he said he would create a new retirement-savings program coordinated by the government, a further bid to appeal to Americans' persistent sense of economic insecurity. 
At the same time, he acknowledged he can't achieve certain goals alone and called on lawmakers to push through various proposals that have stalled in Congress. He urged the House and Senate to send him an overhaul of the immigration system, raise and expand the earned income tax credit for low-wage workers without children, and raise the federal minimum wage for all eligible workers to $10.10 an hour, up from $7.25. 
"Opportunity is who we are," Mr. Obama said. "And the defining project of our generation must be to restore that promise." 
The majority of the speech focused on domestic affairs, but Mr. Obama touched briefly on foreign policy. He indicated the U.S. ultimately would like to leave troops in Afghanistan after 2014, assuming an impasse in negotiations with the Afghan government can be resolved. 
He also highlighted his administration's diplomatic efforts with Iran, saying that an agreement to curtail Tehran's nuclear program "may not succeed" but threatening to veto any of the legislation in Congress that would enact additional sanctions. 
Mr. Obama renewed his call for closing the prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and asked Congress to do away with barriers on moving detainees out of Guantanamo so that the 
U.S. can shutter the prison this year. 
The president asked lawmakers to tackle a number of his priorities. He called on lawmakers to overhaul the tax code and use the savings to fund infrastructure projects -- a proposal he has made before that has gained little traction -- and he pressed the House and Senate to pass trade pacts that some members of his own Democratic Party oppose. 
Mr. Obama's speech touched on issues that have divided the two parties. He declared "climate change is a fact" after saying he would act alone to increase fuel-efficiency standards for heavy-duty trucks this year. 
He also tried to show how his health-care overhaul has been successful, after a botched rollout that has heightened the country's doubts about the law. At the same time, he challenged Republicans to do more than complain. "If you have specific plans to cut costs, cover more people, increase choice, tell America what you'd do differently," he said. "But let's not have another 40-something votes to repeal a law that's already helping millions of Americans." 
The new retirement accounts would provide a guaranteed return, White House officials said. Eventually, people could convert them into traditional retirement-savings vehicles such as a 401(k) or an individual retirement account. 
Mr. Obama's executive order on the minimum wage for employees of federal contractors is an attempt to lead the way as he presses employers to act voluntarily to lift minimum pay for their workers. It also is an opening salvo on an issue that Democrats plan to highlight in midterm elections. 
Many Republicans oppose a minimum-wage increase, saying it would prompt employers to cut back on hiring, hurting low-wage workers. Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R., Ky.) said that when minimum-wage legislation comes to the Senate floor in the coming weeks, Republicans would offer alternatives that they believe would do more to create jobs. 
An objective of the speech was to show that Mr. Obama isn't simply a player on the Washington scene but rather a president with a broad vision and independence from a Congress that polls show to be unpopular. It also was part of an effort by Mr. Obama to regain traction amid low job-approval ratings and pessimism about his abilities. 
Many Democrats praised Mr. Obama's speech"a practical agenda with specific ideas," said Sen. Tim Kaine of Virginia -- but Sen. Joe Manchin of West Virginia said he was concerned by the president's plans to bypass Congress, if necessary. Rep. Tulsi Gabbard (D., Hawaii) said she was disappointed that Mr. Obama didn't call for major changes to limit the surveillance of Americans' phone records, while Sen. Heidi Heitkamp (D., N.D.) said she would have welcomed support for Keystone XL or "finding a viable path forward for coal." 
John Engler, president of the Business Roundtable trade group, said there were plenty of proposals in the speech that corporations could rally behind, such as changes to immigration law, trade authority, and tax-code changes. But he said it remains to be seen whether policy makers can bridge differences. 
Jared A. Favole, Michael R. Crittenden and Janet Hook contributed to this article. 
Credit: By Carol E. Lee and Peter Nicholas 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Minimum wage; 
Presidents; 
Upward mobility; 
Executive privilege; 

State of the Union Address 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Obama, Barack 
Classification 	9190: United States 

1210: Politics & political behavior 


Title 	Obama Seeks To Jump-Start Stalled Plans --- President Vows Executive Action on Wages, 
Savings; GOP Warns He's Overreaching 

Author 	Lee, Carol E; Nicholas, Peter 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.1 
Publication year 	2014 
Publication date 	Jan 29, 2014 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 	00999660 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1492215702  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1492215702?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-20  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 335 of 376 


Whistling Past the Wind Farm 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]24 Jan 2014: A.16. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Whistling+Past+the+Wind+Farm&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00 01-24&volume=&issue=&spage=A.16&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Germany's feed-in tariffs -- which guarantee renewable-energy suppliers above-market prices for their power -- have helped drive up retail power prices by 17% in the past four years while costing utilities and small businesses billions. 

Full Text 
President Obama and his allies keep saying that a major second-term priority is to expand subsidies and mandates to produce alternatives to carbon energy, so they must not be watching Europe. On Wednesday the European Commission abandoned country-by-country targets for greenhouse-gas emissions after 2020. 
The Commission did propose a 40% reduction target in emissions by 2030 for the EU as a whole, but this is a fig leaf. Under the new rules, everyone is committed in theory, but nobody is responsible for meeting the targets. The Commission continues to insist that radical reductions in CO2 emissions can be achieved without damaging the European economy or competitiveness. But several years of painful experience have revealed this to be false, which is why the country targets are now being ditched. 
Take Spain, where financial incentives for renewable energy have driven renewables to as much as 25% of electricity generation. They have also left the country with a $41 billion gap between what energy costs to produce and what utilities can charge for power. Mariano Rajoy's government has been scrambling to scale back the subsidies and close the gap. These efforts have left in the lurch those who installed wind and solar on the promise of high fixed payments for their power. 
In Germany, Angela Merkel is also seeking to push through cuts in wind and solar subsidies and to cap new installations of renewable capacity going forward. Germany's feed-in tariffs -- which guarantee renewable-energy suppliers above-market prices for their power -- have helped drive up retail power prices by 17% in the past four years while costing utilities and small businesses billions. Many of Germany's largest energy users are exempt from the green surcharges, a fact that the European Commission is currently investigating as a possible illegal subsidy. 
European leaders are also finally figuring out that America's shale natural gas boom is giving the U.S. a significant energy cost advantage. Many European companies are moving production to the U.S. so they can stay competitive, which explains why the Commission also resisted calls to impose onerous environmental permitting requirements on hydraulic fracturing. The fracking revolution has sharply reduced American carbon emissions, by the way, as coal-fired power plants have given way to cheaper natural gas -- an accomplishment that was in nobody's five-year plan. 
Europe's anticarbon policy implosion ought to be a lesson to Americans, though most U.S. media still fail to report it. Perhaps they have too much invested in climate-change politics. But eventually facts prevail, even in Washington. 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Energy policy; 
Emissions control; 
Alternative energy sources; 

Editorials -- Energy policy 


Location 	Europe; United States--US 
People 	Obama, Barack 
Company / organization 	Name: European Commission 

NAICS: 928120 


Classification  9180: International 1520: Energy policy 1540: Pollution control  
Title  Whistling Past the Wind Farm  

Author  Anonymous  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.16  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Jan 24, 2014  
column  REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  1491224139  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1491224139?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 336 of 376 


Fuel-Efficiency Rules Are Already Raising Costs in Detroit 
Payne, Henry.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]23 Jan 2014: A.13. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Fuel­Efficiency+Rules+Are+Already+Raising+Costs+in+Detroit&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2014-01­23&volume=&issue=&spage=A.13&au=Payne%2C+Henry&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
GM hopes that the sales gains of the Chevy Colorado and GMC Canyon will mitigate the costs of regulatory compliance -- and fill its coffers so it can invest in any changes necessary (an aluminum body perhaps?) to keep the steel-skinned, full-size Chevy Silverado compliant with EPA rules. 

Full Text 
Detroit -- At the dawn of 2014 the federal government has exited General Motors and Chrysler. Both companies have repaid their auto-bailout loans and Fiat is purchasing Chrysler outright. But federal carbon limits imposed on the auto industry in the depths of the Great Recession -- when it was powerless to resist -- will haunt manufacturers for years to come. The re-election of Barack Obama has cemented EPA fuel-efficiency regulations requiring that, by 2025, auto makers' products average 54.5 miles per gallon. 
On the floor of the 2014 Detroit Auto Show, which is open to the public until Jan. 26, there is ample evidence that the regulations are starting to bite. Detroit temperatures have hovered in the single digits after hitting a record low, minus-14 degrees, in the first week of January -- temperatures consistent with a planet that hasn't warmed in more than a decade. Yet the gods of global warming must be satisfied, and the sacrifices to the EPA's climate ideology come with a big price. 
While auto makers are once again parading cars and trucks their customers want to own, company strategies are nevertheless being driven by government fuel-economy rules. Behind the glitzy displays, gorgeous vehicle introductions and relief that vehicle sales are almost back to 2007 prerecession levels, there is worry about the costs the fuel-efficiency rules impose. 
Take the radical, expensive redesign of the Ford F150 pickup, America's best-selling vehicle. The F150 is the talk of the show because it is the first truck -- and the first large-volume vehicle -- to have its body made entirely of aluminum to save weight and reduce fuel consumption. 
The driving force behind Ford's decision was the EPA standards that will force full-size trucks to get upward of 30 mpg in 10 years -- up from 20 today. Ford had already made significant gains in efficiency by redesigning its powertrains to add less-thirsty turbo V-6s to its lineup, but the step to aluminum is an indication that the EPA rules will require much more than squeezing engines. The switch to costlier, lighter aluminum means a massive capital investment that involves the retooling of factories and the remaking of Ford's material supply stream as it shifts away from steel sheet for body panels. Ford won't disclose the investment, but it runs into the billions. 
Ford sells 700,000 F150 trucks a year, so industry experts say it could overnight become the second-biggest aluminum customer outside of the U.S. military. The change brings significant risk to a truck class where buyers put a premium on durability and toughness. While Ford is confident that its aluminum alloy will match steel for strength, its move is also a gamble given the higher cost of aluminum to repair and the subsequent insurance cost to customers. 
What is the hardest thing about launching a new car today? 
"The new government regulations -- whether it be fuel economy, safety or whatever -- are very difficult and pose a significant challenge to the development of any new vehicle," Ford Mustang engineer Dave Pericak tells Car & Driver. The mighty muscle car will offer a turbocharged four-cylinder engine for the first time in a bow to federal regulations. 
Ford's strategy is not to criticize the regulations, calculating that they are here to stay and it's a marketing nightmare to fight government and media campaigns for better fuel efficiency. So Ford is trying to turn the rules to its advantage, playing to its marketing strengths in selling vehicles like the Mustang and the best-selling F150 as the most innovative products in their segment. The F150, for example, will be 700 pounds lighter, 3-4 mpg more efficient, and therefore save customers -- especially companies with truck fleets -- millions in fuel costs. 
Aluminum's costs are significantly higher than steel, and Ford won't disclose how much the changeover will erode its profit margins. Those F150 margins are significant, with each truck sale adding $10,000 to the company's bottom line. In the highly competitive truck segment, however, Ford will likely swallow those costs to maintain a competitive sticker price and hope that increased sales will bring more cash. 
GM, by contrast, is banking on a different path that it thinks is less disruptive and less costly. Less costly is a relative term, of course. The company plans to introduce an entirely new vehicle for the midsize truck segment that Detroit auto makers had abandoned. GM hopes that the sales gains of the Chevy Colorado and GMC Canyon will mitigate the costs of regulatory compliance -- and fill its coffers so it can invest in any changes necessary (an aluminum body perhaps?) to keep the steel-skinned, full-size Chevy Silverado compliant with EPA rules. 
Chrysler, meanwhile, has invested heavily in nine-speed transmissions and diesel engines. Its RAM pickup diesel competes against the Ford F150 and gets an impressive 25 mpg. One of Ford's Great Recession advantages, reports Karl Henkel of the Detroit News, is that by avoiding bankruptcy it could invest in aluminum. GM insiders say the government penalties of not meeting the regulations are too steep not to make new product investments. 
Bob Lutz, former product guru of General Motors, once predicted that the 54.5-by-2025 EPA regulations would cost consumers an additional $5,000 per vehicle -- essentially the cost of making every car a hybrid. Auto makers have spent billions on Washington lobbyists, as well as engineering research and development, to help carve loopholes in the EPA rules. 
Significantly, auto makers receive mpg credits for producing so-called zero-emission vehicles -- that is, coal-burning electric cars. Barack Obama once predicted that there would be one million EVs on the road by 2015 in the quixotic hope that if auto makers just built electrics, buyers would come. This year's show is confirmation that battery-powered vehicles are a niche vehicle -- like sports cars -- not a mainstream choice. With a 3% market share, hybrids and EVs, like sports cars, are pricey, with Cadillac and Tesla showing new offerings beginning at $70,000 while BMW is marketing its new i-Series of electric cars at anywhere from $40,000 to $105,000. 
These cars will be costly to taxpayers as well, as each of their well-heeled buyers will get a $7,500 government tax credit. 
Mr. Payne is the auto critic for the Detroit News. 
Credit: By Henry Payne 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Federal regulation; 
Product design; 
Automobile industry; 

Fuel economy standards 


Location 	Detroit Michigan 
Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 

NAICS: 924110 


Classification 	9190: United States 

8680: Transportation equipment industry 

4310: Regulation 


Title 	Fuel-Efficiency Rules Are Already Raising Costs in Detroit 
Author 	Payne, Henry 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.13 
Publication year 	2014 
Publication date 	Jan 23, 2014 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 	00999660 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	Commentary 
ProQuest document ID 	1491045190 
Document URL 	https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1491045190?accountid=14902 
Copyright 	(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further 
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Last updated 2017-11-21 
Database US Newsstream 
document 337 of 376 


Boldly Going Where No Greens Have Gone Before 
Luke, Max; Mukuno, Jenna.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]08 Jan 2014: A.15. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Boldly+Going+Where+No+Greens+Have+Gone+Before&title=Wall+S 01-08&volume=&issue=&spage=A.15&au=Luke%2C+Max%3BMukuno%2C+Jenna&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
According to the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration's environmental assessment of the launch and re-entry of Virgin Galactic's spacecraft, one launch-land cycle emits about 30 tons of carbon dioxide, or about five tons per passenger. 

Full Text 
If all goes according to plan, Hollywood icon Leonardo DiCaprio will blast into space aboard the maiden voyage of Richard Branson's Virgin Galactic spaceship sometime this year, opening up a new era of civilian space travel. This development might only be remarkable as the fulfillment of a dream long predicted by futurists and technophiles, were it not for the fact that Messrs. Branson and DiCaprio are prominent environmentalist celebrities who have warned of a coming ecological catastrophe if we fail to address our carbon problem. 
Mr. Branson's commitment to fighting climate change is praiseworthy: Over the years, he has consistently advocated for a broad mix of clean energy sources, including nuclear. He is founder and chief benefactor of the Carbon War Room, an outfit that has long advocated for carbon pricing and energy efficiency measures to help alleviate global warming. Mr. DiCaprio is on the board of trustees of the Natural Resources Defense Council and has decried overconsumption. "We are the number one leading consumers, the biggest producers of waste around the world," the actor said in 2008. 
Private space travel doesn't seem to mesh with living green, and Mr. Branson surely anticipated that his project would raise environmentalists' eyebrows. Perhaps that's why he announced this past May: "We have reduced the [carbon emission] cost of somebody going into space from something like two weeks of New York's electricity supply to less than the cost of an economy round-trip from Singapore to London." 
That would be a remarkable achievement in energy efficiency if it were true. Alas, it is not. According to the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration's environmental assessment of the launch and re-entry of Virgin Galactic's spacecraft, one launch-land cycle emits about 30 tons of carbon dioxide, or about five tons per passenger. That is about five times the carbon footprint of a flight from Singapore to London. 
When you include the energy of the entire Virgin Galactic operation, which includes support aircraft, it is seven times more than the flight from Singapore to London. As such, a single trip on Virgin Galactic will require twice as much energy as the average American consumes each year. (These numbers were confirmed by a representative for Virgin Galactic.) 
The Virgin Galactic story is familiar: Environmental celebrities and other elites often have a very hard time walking their talk. The bigger story is what Virgin Galactic tells us about the likely trajectory of future energy consumption. 
Everyone from President Obama to the International Energy Agency has, in recent years, promoted energy efficiency as an easy, and often profitable, strategy to quickly reduce carbon emissions by reducing energy consumption. But even as our cars, buildings and appliances have become more efficient, we continue to find new ways to consume energy. Consumer technologies that we now consider staples, such as personal computers, flat-screen TVs, iPhones and cloud computing, have come into use in the last few decades. In addition to these everyday products, we've seen the rise of energy-intensive luxury goods, like private jets and yachts. 
Humans have always been creative at finding new ways to use energy. Oil lamps, large ships, catapults, blast furnaces, gunpowder, fireworks, hand cannons and the printing press were all in use long before the first coal mine was dug or the first oil well was struck. But harnessing coal, and then petroleum, vastly expanded the amount of energy available for human use. Coal, first used to pump water out of mines, quickly led to the development of the railway industry and found uses in electricity, steel, transportation fuels and chemicals. Petroleum, first used in kerosene lamps beginning in the mid 19th century, soon found uses in transportation, cooking, lubrication, asphalt and myriad chemical products. 
It might be that global warming will one day motivate societies to ban things like space tourism, impose stricter regulations and higher taxes on energy consumption, or voluntarily reduce their energy consumption. But it's notable that many of the same people who express the most concern about global warming -- including Messrs. Branson and DiCaprio -- are the ones who are opening up new frontiers in energy consumption. 
Even without restrictions, global energy consumption may peak at some point in the future, as population growth slows, poor people around the world achieve higher living standards, and our energy technologies continue to become more efficient. But for decades to come, energy use will almost certainly continue to rise around the world. Given this reality, efforts to improve energy efficiency may modestly slow the growth of energy consumption but are unlikely to halt it, much less achieve the deep declines necessary to mitigate climate change. 
That Mr. Branson has developed a spacecraft that blasts humans into space more efficiently than previous vehicles is a laudable technical accomplishment. But from an environmental perspective, that accomplishment is completely overshadowed by the reality that the mogul is pioneering a new industry that involves blasting tourists into space. Should he succeed, the relative efficiency of the endeavor is almost entirely beside the point. Mr. Branson will have invented a new way for wealthy elites like Mr. DiCaprio to consume vast quantities of energy. 
Weekend trips to Mars for the masses are, of course, still the stuff of science fiction. So, too, is the fantasy that climate change might be averted through deep cuts in global energy consumption. 
Mr. Luke is a policy associate in the Energy and Climate Program at Breakthrough Institute in Oakland, Calif., where Ms. Mukuno is an assistant editor. 
(See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: Virgin's Spaceship Already Meets Fuel-Economy Goal" -- WSJ Jan. 13, 2014) Credit: By Max Luke and Jenna Mukuno 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Energy policy;  
Carbon;  
Travel;  
Aviation;  
Celebrities;  
Energy efficiency;  
Space exploration;  
Commercial space ventures;  
Environmental protection  
People  DiCaprio, Leonardo; Branson, Richard  
Company / organization  Name: Virgin Galactic  
NAICS: 481111  
Title  Boldly Going Where No Greens Have Gone Before  
Author  Luke, Max; Mukuno, Jenna  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.15  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Jan 8, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1475030742  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1475030742?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  

Database US Newsstream 
document 338 of 376 


The Future of Coal: Gas Boom Aside, Coal Isn't Dead --- Production Surges In Western U.S. For Power Plants At Home, Abroad 
Miller, John W; Smith, Rebecca.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]07 Jan 2014: B.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=The+Future+of+Coal%3A+Gas+Boom+Aside%2C+Coal+Isn%27t+Dea --+Production+Surges+In+Western+U.S.+For+Power+Plants+At+Home%2C+Abroad&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2014-01­07&volume=&issue=&spage=B.1&au=Miller%2C+John+W%3BSmith%2C+Rebecca&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Peabody Energy Corp., Arch Coal Inc., Alpha Natural Resources LLC and Cloud Peak Energy Inc. -- control 52% of U.S. coal production. Mines in Wyoming's Powder River Basin offer a healthy future for the U.S. coal industry, Mr. Boyce says. 

Full Text 
Corrections & Amplifications 
Canada was the biggest customer of U.S. coal exports in 2002 and has since been displaced by the Netherlands, Britain and China. A Marketplace article on Tuesday about the 
future of the U.S. coal industry incorrectly said Canada was the biggest customer in 2012. 
(WSJ Jan. 8, 2014) 
Last year was a tough one for the coal industry. 
James River Coal Co. laid off a quarter of its workers. Consol Energy Inc., which has mined coal since the Civil War, sold five Appalachian mines, representing nearly half its coal 

output. And more than a half-dozen U.S. coal-mining companies went under, beset by new environmental rules and competition from low-cost natural gas. 
But coal isn't going away. 
Coal remains the biggest source of fuel for generating electricity in the U.S. and coal exports are growing fast. Even as coal production plunges in the green hills of Appalachia, 

it is booming in the open-pit mines of Wyoming and under the plains of Illinois and Indiana. 
Overall, U.S. coal production is projected to remain relatively constant over the next three decades, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration. 
"Coal's future is strong; it's just not a growth story" in the U.S., says Consol President Nick DeIuliis. 
Demand is being stoked by the rise of power-hungry middle classes in emerging economies, led by China and India. By the end of this decade, coal is expected to surpass oil as 

the world's dominant fuel source, according to a recent study by consultant Wood Mackenzie. 

Two-thirds of coal's growth will be driven by demand for electricity in China, the firm says. "China's demand for coal will almost single-handedly propel the growth of coal," 
William Durbin, Wood Mackenzie's head of global markets, said in a recent speech. 
Concern over the links between climate change and carbon emissions linked to coal could reduce consumption. Assuming weak economic growth and the strictest environmental 

rules, global coal demand could drop to 3.3 billion tons in 2035 from around five billion today, according to the International Energy Agency. But if politicians and regulators 

decide that the benefits of coal outweigh the environmental risks and craft looser regulations, coal demand could rise to six billion tons, the agency says. 
In the U.S., coal is consolidating. Two counties in Wyoming account for 40% of U.S. coal production. And four companies -- Peabody Energy Corp., Arch Coal Inc., Alpha Natural 
Resources LLC and Cloud Peak Energy Inc. -- control 52% of U.S. coal production. Twenty years ago, the top four companies controlled less than 30%. 

The decline of the coal industry in the eastern U.S. has hit isolated towns in places like eastern Kentucky and West Virginia's Mingo County, uprooting families and decimating local economies. The number of people employed in U.S. coal mining has declined to 120,699, down nearly 15% from 20 years ago, although production has increased slightly over that time. 
Michael Marcum, a 41-year-old from Wise, Va., says he has worked coal jobs, mostly driving trucks, his whole life. In 2010, he made $98,000 as a truck driver hauling coal. 
Now the father of two is making $500 a week, about a quarter as much. He was able to afford a Christmas present only for his younger child, he says and is thinking of moving 
to Alabama. "Here, there's no training, no factories, nothing. What are you supposed to do?" 
Coal companies say Appalachian coal has become too expensive to mine. Ten years ago, Peabody Energy, the nation's largest coal producer, decided to move west and overseas. 

"It all comes down to geology," says CEO Greg Boyce. "You've got a district [in the East] that's been mined for 100, 120 years; conditions were difficult." 

Peabody bought mines in Australia and expanded into producing higher-grade metallurgical coal for the steel industry, which has better profit margins than the thermal coal 
used to generate electricity. 
Mines in Wyoming's Powder River Basin offer a healthy future for the U.S. coal industry, Mr. Boyce says. "We have the largest mine in the world there, and it has one of the 

lowest cost structures for a mine of its size," he says. "The coal there travels to all corners of the world." 

Exports are the U.S. coal industry's brightest hope. The country shipped out 114.2 million tons in 2012, more than triple the level a decade earlier. Coal-export revenue jumped to $14.8 billion from $1.6 billion. 
In 2012, the country's biggest coal customer was Canada, which consumed 42% of U.S. exports. Now the top three customers are the Netherlands, Britain and China. European coal imports have boomed as its gas supplies taper off and it tries to wean itself from nuclear power. European environmental regulations that take effect in 2015 threaten to reduce coal demand, but power plants on the continent are installing pollution-control mechanisms that could keep their demand for U.S. coal from plunging. 
The International Energy Agency recently warned that the U.S. coal industry will have a difficult time competing with Indonesia, Australia and Russia in export markets, however. Some U.S. rivals in selling coal to Asia are closer, reducing shipping fees, with lower labor and environmental costs. "The U.S. will be the high-cost marginal supplier in the Asia market," says Laszlo Varro, head of the agency's gas, coal and power division. 
The U.S. electric-power industry remains a huge customer. During the first eight months of last year, 39% of U.S. electricity came from coal, down from 55% in 1990. Natural gas accounted for 27% through August of last year, up from 17% a decade earlier, as hydraulic fracturing technology has spurred gas production. Coal is expected to decline several percentage points over the next three decades as use of natural gas climbs, the Energy Information Administration says. 
American Electric Power Co., which owns utilities in 11 states, generated 86% of its electricity from coal just a few years ago, making it the biggest buyer of coal in the U.S. For the first nine months of last year, coal accounted for 76%. CEO Nick Akins projects the figure will bottom out at 50% to 60% by next year. 
One reason that coal won't disappear soon is that regulators are reluctant to let utilities become too dependent on natural gas, fearing that a sudden price jump could send electricity prices soaring. Also, utilities have billions of dollars invested in plants that haven't been paid off. It often makes sense to let plants keep running until their debts are cleared; otherwise, utility customers wind up paying for unproductive assets. 
Credit: By John W. Miller and Rebecca Smith 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Coal industry; 

Electricity generation; 


Coal mining; US exports  
Location  Midwest states  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Peabody Energy Corp 212112;  
Name: NAICS:  Arch Coal Inc 212111, 212112;  
Name: NAICS:  James River Coal Co 212111;  
Name: NAICS:  Consol Energy Inc 211111, 212112, 213113, 237210  

Classification  8500: Extractive industries  
9190: United States  
Title  The Future of Coal: Gas Boom Aside, Coal Isn't Dead --- Production Surges In Western U.S. For  
Power Plants At Home, Abroad  
Author  Miller, John W; Smith, Rebecca  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.1  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Jan 7, 2014  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  

Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1475043762  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1475043762?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-20  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 339 of 376 


'Peer Review' Doesn't Mean What You Think It Does 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]03 Jan 2014: A.10. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=%27Peer+Review%27+Doesn%27t+Mean+What+You+Think+It+Does& 01-03&volume=&issue=&spage=A.10&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
An expert panel commissioned by then-EPA administrator William Reilly reported in 1992 that: (a) "The science advice function -- that is, the process of ensuring that policy decisions are informed by a clear understanding of the relevant science -- is not well defined or coherently organized within EPA"; (b) "In many cases, appropriate science advice and information are not considered early or often enough in the decision-making process"; (c) Although "EPA should be a source of unbiased scientific information . . 

Full Text 
In regard to your Dec. 24 editorial "Political Science at the EPA": 
You relate how the EPA used government speculative studies and models suggesting that carbon sequestration from coal power plants might be viable and then "peer reviewed" those same studies themselves. This is just another example of the rampant junk science that permeates most of the regulatory machinery, including the inbred "peer review" employed to "substantiate" global warming. It is important to consider what the peer-review process actually does and does not entail. 
A technical journal typically relies on a group of scientists in its fields of interest and selects three of these to read a paper proposed for publication. These normally unpaid reviewers are given copies to read as carefully as they see fit. They do not do any actual lab work to validate results, but simply attempt to assure there are no glaring errors or obvious absurdities, protecting the journal from embarrassment. 
Peer review in no way assures the actual work is valid or that it is even reproducible. 
James W. Benefiel 
Dunedin, Fla. 
The EPA's tendency to distort science to fit policy has long been criticized not only by outside scientific groups but also by its own extramural advisers. An expert panel commissioned by then-EPA administrator William Reilly reported in 1992 that: (a) "The science advice function -- that is, the process of ensuring that policy decisions are informed by a clear understanding of the relevant science -- is not well defined or coherently organized within EPA"; (b) "In many cases, appropriate science advice and information are not considered early or often enough in the decision-making process"; (c) Although "EPA should be a source of unbiased scientific information . . . EPA has not always ensured that contrasting, reputable scientific views are well-explored and well-documented." And most damning of all, that (d) "EPA science is perceived by many people, both inside and outside the Agency, to be adjusted to fit policy." Those people were -- and are -- right. 
During the more than two decades since that report, it appears that nothing has changed. 
Henry I. Miller, M.D. 
Hoover Institution 
Stanford, Calif. 
(c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Peer review; 
Science 


Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 

NAICS: 924110; 

Name: Hoover Institution on War Revolution & Peace NAICS: 541720 
Title 	'Peer Review' Doesn't Mean What You Think It Does 
Author  Anonymous  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.10  
Publication year  2014  
Publication date  Jan 3, 2014  
Section  Letters to the Editor  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1473698287  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1473698287?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 340 of 376 


Corporate News: Climate Activist Seeks BHP Board Seat 
Hoyle, Rhiannon.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]21 Nov 2013: B.8. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Corporate+News%3A+Climate+Activist+Seeks+BHP+Board+Seat&title= 11-21&volume=&issue=&spage=B.8&au=Hoyle%2C+Rhiannon&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
[...]he has the support of U.S. pension fund California Public Employees' Retirement System, which says it plans to vote its US$500 million in BHP shares in favor of Mr. Dunlop. 

Full Text 
PERTH, Australia -- BHP Billiton has its hands full trying to reverse falling profit as prices for many commodities drop. It also faces a challenge on another issue: climate change. 
Ian Dunlop, a former Royal Dutch Shell PLC executive, is seeking election to BHP's board to get the world's largest mining company to tackle global warming more aggressively. And he has the support of U.S. pension fund California Public Employees' Retirement System, which says it plans to vote its US$500 million in BHP shares in favor of Mr. Dunlop. 
Mr. Dunlop wants BHP eventually to halt production of thermal coal, which is burned in power stations to generate electricity. He also wants the company to review the carbon footprint of its Australian iron-ore mines and U.S. natural-gas fields, and to coordinate action with others to tackle greenhouse-gas emissions. 
BHP's board has recommended that shareholders vote against him at Thursday's annual meeting here. The company says it already addresses climate change, citing the experience of its existing directors in health, safety and the environment. 
"Mr. Dunlop would not add to the effectiveness of the board," BHP Chairman Jacques Nasser said in a notice to shareholders. 
Mr. Dunlop concedes that his chance of securing 50% of shareholder votes is slim, despite serving as chairman of the Australian Coal Association in the late 1980s and as chief executive of the Australian Institute of Company Directors from 1997 to 2001. The 71-year-old is chairman of Safe Climate Australia, a research and lobbying group. 
"If you look at the big companies like BHP, they have the access to the science," Mr. Dunlop says. "They need to lead." 
The last time BHP shareholders voted on an external candidate was in 2008, when shareholder activist Stephen Mayne garnered just 12% of ballots. 
Credit: By Rhiannon Hoyle 
(c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Pension funds; 

Shareholder voting; 
Corporate governance; 

Global warming; 
Boards of directors 


Location 	Australia; United States--US 
People 	Dunlop, Ian 
Company / organization 	Name: Royal Dutch Shell PLC 

NAICS: 324110, 213112, 221210; 


Name: Public Employees Retirement System-California NAICS: 525110; 
Name: Australian Coal Association NAICS: 813910; 
Name: BHP Billiton NAICS: 211111, 212231, 212234 
Classification  1540: Pollution control  
2110: Board of directors  
2410: Social responsibility  
8500: Extractive industries  
9175: Western Europe  
9179: Asia & the Pacific  
Title  Corporate News: Climate Activist Seeks BHP Board Seat  
Author  Hoyle, Rhiannon  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.8  
Publication year  2013  
Publication date  Nov 21, 2013  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1459951177  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1459951177?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-20  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 341 of 376 


Green Energy Is the Real Subsidy Hog 
Lomborg, Bjorn.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]12 Nov 2013: A.17. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Green+Energy+Is+the+Real+Subsidy+Hog&title=Wall+Street+Journal& 11-12&volume=&issue=&spage=A.17&au=Lomborg%2C+Bjorn&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Actual spending skews even more toward green energy than it seems. Since wind turbines and other renewable sources produce much less energy than fossil fuels, the U.S. is paying more for less. Gasoline and diesel deserve more taxation, the report says, so the IMF counts taxes that were not levied as "subsidies." [...]air pollution merits a 34­cents-per-gallon tax, according to the IMF models, while traffic accidents and congestion should add about $1 per gallon. 

Full Text 
For 20 years the world has tried subsidizing green technology instead of focusing on making it more efficient. Today Spain spends about 1% of GDP throwing money at green energy such as solar and wind power. The $11 billion a year is more than Spain spends on higher education. 
At the end of the century, with current commitments, these Spanish efforts will have delayed the impact of global warming by roughly 61 hours, according to the estimates of Yale University's well-regarded Dynamic Integrated Climate-Economy model. Hundreds of billions of dollars for 61 additional hours? That's a bad deal. 
Yet when such inefficient green subsidies are criticized, their defenders can be relied on to point out that the world subsidizes fossil fuels even more heavily. We shouldn't subsidize either. But the misinformation surrounding energy subsidies is considerable, and it helps keep the world from enacting sensible policy. 
Three myths about fossil-fuel subsidies are worth debunking. The first is the claim, put forth by organizations such as the Environmental Law Institute, that the U.S. subsidizes fossil fuels more heavily than green energy. Not so. 
The U.S. Energy Information Administration estimated in 2010 that fossil-fuel subsidies amounted to $4 billion a year. These include $240 million in credit for investment in Clean Coal Facilities; a tax deferral worth $980 million called excess of percentage over cost depletion; and an expense deduction on amortization of pollution-control equipment. Renewable sources received more than triple that figure, roughly $14 billion. That doesn't include $2.5 billion for nuclear energy. 
Actual spending skews even more toward green energy than it seems. Since wind turbines and other renewable sources produce much less energy than fossil fuels, the U.S. is paying more for less. Coal-powered electricity is subsidized at about 5% of one cent for every kilowatt-hour produced, while wind power gets about a nickel per kwh. For solar power, it costs the taxpayer 77 cents per kwh. 
Critics of fossil-fuel subsidies, such as climate scientist Jim Hansen, also suggest that the immense size of global subsidies is evidence of the power over governments wielded by fossil-fuel companies and climate-change skeptics. Global fossil-fuel subsidies do exceed those for renewables in raw dollars -- $523 billion to $88 billion, according to the International Energy Agency. But the disparity is reversed when proportion is taken into account. Fossil fuels make up more than 80% of global energy, while modern green energy accounts for about 5%. This means that renewables still receive three times as much money per energy unit. 
But much more important, the critics ignore that these fossil-fuel subsidies are almost exclusive to non-Western countries. Twelve such nations account for 75% of the world's fossil-fuel subsidies. Iran tops the list with $82 billion a year, followed by Saudi Arabia at $61 billion. Russia, India and China spend between $30 billion and $40 billion, and Venezuela, Egypt, Iran, U.A.E., Indonesia, Mexico and Algeria make up the rest. 
These subsidies have nothing to do with cozying up to oil companies or indulging global-warming skeptics. The spending is a way for governments to buy political stability: In Venezuela, gas sells at 5.8 cents a gallon, costing the government $22 billion a year, more than twice what is spent on health care. 
A third myth is propagated by a recent International Monetary Fund report, "Energy Subsidy Reform -- Lessons and Implications." The organization announced in March that it had discovered an extra $1.4 trillion in fossil-fuel subsidies that everyone else overlooked. Of that figure, the report claims, $700 billion comes from the developed world. 
U.S. gasoline and diesel alone make up about half of the IMF's $700 billion in alleged subsidies. Gasoline and diesel deserve more taxation, the report says, so the IMF counts taxes that were not levied as "subsidies." Thus air pollution merits a 34-cents-per-gallon tax, according to the IMF models, while traffic accidents and congestion should add about $1 per gallon. 
According to the IMF, the U.S. also should have a 17% value-added tax like other countries, at about 80 cents per gallon. The combined $350 billion such taxes allegedly would raise gets spun as a subsidy. 
The assumptions behind the IMF's math have some problems. The organization assumes a social price of carbon dioxide at five times what Europe currently charges. The air-pollution damages are upward of 10 times higher than the European Union estimates. And what do traffic accidents have to do with gasoline subsidies? 
Finally, the IMF effectively ignores the 49.5 cents per gallon in gasoline taxes the U.S. consumer actually pays. The models cancel out this tax, inexplicably, with an "international shipping cost." But even if you accept the IMF's estimated pollution costs and the European-style VAT, the total tax the IMF says goes uncollected comes to only about 44 cents per gallon -- or less than the actual U.S. tax of 49.5 cents per gallon. The real under-taxation is zero. The $350 billion is a figment of the IMF's balance sheet. 
Inaccurate information of this sort is needlessly misinforming public policy. I'm in favor of ending global fossil-fuel subsidies -- and green-energy subsidies. Subsidizing first-generation, inefficient green energy might make well-off people feel good about themselves, but it won't transform the energy market. 
Green-energy initiatives must focus on innovations, making new generations of technology work better and cost less. This will eventually power the world in a cleaner and cheaper way than fossil fuels. That effort isn't aided by the perpetuation of myths. 
Dr. Lomborg, director of the Copenhagen Consensus Center, is the author of "How Much Have Global Problems Cost the World? A Scoreboard from 1900 to 2050" (Cambridge, 2013). 
(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: Prudent Investing and Green Energy" -- WSJ November 20, 2013) 
Credit: By Bjorn Lomborg 
(c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Alternative energy sources; 

Fossil fuels; 
Environmental protection; 
Energy policy; 
Wind power; 

Air pollution; 

Renewable resources; 
Government subsidies 


Location 	Spain; United States--US 
Company / organization 	Name: International Energy Agency 

NAICS: 928120; 

Name: Yale University NAICS: 611310 
Title 	Green Energy Is the Real Subsidy Hog 
Author 	Lomborg, Bjorn 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.17 
Publication year 	2013 
Publication date 	Nov 12, 2013 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 	00999660 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	News 
ProQuest document ID 	1449926871 
Document URL 	https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1449926871?accountid=14902 
Copyright (c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Last updated 2017-11-20 
Database US Newsstream 
document 342 of 376 


Germany Reinvents the Energy Crisis 
Jenkins, Holman W, Jr.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]09 Nov 2013: A.15. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Germany+Reinvents+the+Energy+Crisis&title=Wall+Street+Journal& 11-09&volume=&issue=&spage=A.15&au=Jenkins%2C+Holman+W%2C+Jr&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Because the sun and wind are intermittent and the power grid is poorly arranged to accommodate them, brownouts and blackouts threaten this winter. Because the bills are paid by households and businesses, electricity rates are triple those in the United States. [...]the world's store of fossil hydrocarbons is truly vast, including almost unimaginable quantities of methane hydrates. 

Full Text 
ObamaCare isn't the only policy train wreck in progress. Like Mao urging peasants to melt down their pots, pans and farm tools to turn China into a steel-producing superpower overnight, Germany dished out subsidies to encourage homeowners and farmers to install solar panels and windmills and sell energy back to the power company at inflated prices. Success -- Germany now gets 25% of its power from renewables -- has turned out to be a disaster. 
As Germans rush to grab this easy money, carbon dioxide output has risen, not fallen, because money-strapped utilities have switched to burning cheap American coal to provide the necessary standby power when wind and sun fail. 
Because the sun and wind are intermittent and the power grid is poorly arranged to accommodate them, brownouts and blackouts threaten this winter. 
Because the bills are paid by households and businesses, electricity rates are triple those in the United States. An immediate panic is jobs, as prized industries head to the U.S. for cheaper energy unleashed by the shale revolution. Europe's top energy official now speaks frankly of the "deindustrialization in Germany." 
In Britain, where policy has been nearly as generous to renewables, "It's fine being very, very green, but not if you're interested in manufacturing," complains a prominent CEO. 
Democracy's great virtue is that it doesn't follow schemes off a cliff, but the normal adjustment mechanisms are hampered by the fact that Europe's energy disaster implicates the entire political spectrum. 
Ed Miliband, leader of Britain's Labour Party, set the theme for next year's British election when he recently promised to freeze energy prices if elected. But Labour isn't about to disown the solar and wind subsidies it created. It wants to soldier on, shifting the cost to business. In Germany, conservative Angela Merkel embraced the opposition's energy economics wholesale after Fukushima, leaving voters who are alarmed about energy prices no place to turn in September's election except Angela Merkel, who vaguely indicated some moderation of the energiewende (energy revolution) she launched and continues to champion. 
An unwonted glimmer of reason has actually come from her likely Social Democrat coalition partner, author of Germany's original green energy law, whose spokesman now says: "We need to ensure that renewable energy is affordable. And we need to put an end to the idea that we can pull out of nuclear and coal simultaneously. This won't work." 
It's tempting to assume Europe's politicians were praying in the church of global warming. But more important is their subscription to resource-depletion ideology, which convinced them they'd picked a political winner because rising fossil fuel prices were guaranteed to make green energy look cheap in comparison. 
"When more people consume oil and coal, the price will go up, but when more people consume renewable energy, the price of it will go down," explained Ms. Merkel's top energy adviser. 
We have here an idea seemingly impervious to experience and part of the mental baggage of every politician likely to get elected in our world. "It is absolutely certain that [fossil energy] demand will go up a lot faster than supply. It's just a fact," President Obama explained in 2011. The U.S. "cannot afford to bet our long-term prosperity on a resource that will eventually run out." 
Mr. Obama mentioned shale exactly once in his speech -- and only to say shale would run out too. 
If all this were true, Europe wouldn't be in its present fix. Here's the real truth: The shale revolution is less revolutionary than it seems. It has shocked settled misconceptions only because it happened under the noses of Americans, in populated areas where the casual assumption was that "resources" would long ago have been dug out and carted away. 
In fact, the world's store of fossil hydrocarbons is truly vast, including almost unimaginable quantities of methane hydrates. The challenge is the technological and economic one of getting access to a given resource at an affordable price -- a challenge ever since men used rags to soak up oil from natural seeps. For 150 years, the price of a barrel of oil has fluctuated between $10 and $100 (in 2011 dollars), a range that has been sufficient to call forth new reserves and feedstocks when needed to maintain hydrocarbons as a source of competitively priced energy. 
Europe's energy crisis is a lot like ours of 40 years ago -- self-inflicted. Europe's dream was untenable the minute energy prices began falling in a major trade competitor like the United States. The big question now is how far will the political upheaval go when an entire elite is implicated in an unsatisfactory energy experiment, which inevitably has become wrapped up in public disappointment with another failed elite project, the European Union itself. 
Fascinating too will be the fate of Europe's shale. In Europe, government, not landowners, controls and benefits from mineral resources, creating the zero-sum resource politics that have made the Mideast a paragon of stability and civil progress. What about global warming? At least that answer is easier. European voters are coming out where Americans have, realizing that foreswearing cheap energy will do nothing for CO2 levels (and even less for climate) as long as others aren't foreswearing cheap energy too. 
Credit: By Holman W. Jenkins, Jr. 
(c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Energy policy  
Location  Europe; Germany  
Classification  9175: Western Europe  
1520: Energy policy  
9176: Eastern Europe  
Title  Germany Reinvents the Energy Crisis  
Author  Jenkins, Holman W, Jr  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.15  
Publication year  2013  
Publication date  Nov 9, 2013  
column  Business World  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1449449145  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1449449145?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-20  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 343 of 376 


World News: U.S. to Cut Back Funds For Coal Plants Overseas 
Johnson, Keith.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]30 Oct 2013: A.11. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=World+News%3A+U.S.+to+Cut+Back+Funds+For+Coal+Plants+Overse 10-30&volume=&issue=&spage=A.11&au=Johnson%2C+Keith&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The administration will apply essentially the same greenhouse-gas emissions standards for coal plants built overseas as recent Environmental Protection Agency rules would do for domestic coal plants, Treasury Department officials said. 

Full Text 
The Obama administration, which is already planning to crack down on coal-fired power plants at home, also wants to cut off public financing for coal plants overseas. 
The administration will apply essentially the same greenhouse-gas emissions standards for coal plants built overseas as recent Environmental Protection Agency rules would do 
for domestic coal plants, Treasury Department officials said. 
The EPA rules would essentially rule out new coal plants built using existing standard technology. 
The guidelines unveiled by the Treasury Department on Tuesday flesh out one part of a climate-change plan that President Barack Obama announced in June. They are meant to 

respond to the global proliferation of coal-fired power plants, which increase emissions of greenhouse gases. 

"We believe that if public financing points the way, it will then facilitate private investment" in cleaner or low-carbon sources of energy, said Lael Brainerd, the Treasury 
Department's undersecretary for international affairs. 
The U.S. plan meshes with similar efforts by the World Bank and Nordic countries to nudge the developing world off coal unless there is no other alternative. 
But strict rules for coal financing could collide with other goals shared by the U.S. and global organizations, such as increasing access to energy in Africa and other poor regions. 
In South Africa, the World Bank helped to finance a new coal-fired power plant but only after imposing tougher environmental rules. 
Brian Dames, chief executive of Eskom Holdings Ltd., the South African power company, said overly restrictive rules from international lenders could hit the poorest countries 

hardest, since they are most dependent on public financing. 

The Treasury guidelines will eliminate U.S. public financing for coal plants in most countries unless the plants use costly technology to capture emissions of carbon dioxide, the 
main greenhouse gas. 
The U.S. and multilateral institutions hope to spur the development of clean energy sources-including hydroelectric, solar and wind power. 

Rebecca Ballhaus contributed to this article. Credit: By Keith Johnson 
(c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Emissions; 

Environmental protection; 
Energy policy; 
Coal-fired power plants 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Obama, Barack 
Company / organization 	Name: Eskom Holdings Ltd 

NAICS: 221121, 221122; 


Name:  International Bank for Reconstruction & Development--World Bank  
NAICS:  928120;  
Name:  Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS:  924110  

Title  World News: U.S. to Cut Back Funds For Coal Plants Overseas  
Author  Johnson, Keith  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.11  
Publication year  2013  
Publication date  Oct 30, 2013  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1446863109  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1446863109?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-20  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 344 of 376 


The Coming Carbon Asset Bubble 
Gore, Al; Blood, David.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]30 Oct 2013: A.15. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=The+Coming+Carbon+Asset+Bubble&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=0 10-30&volume=&issue=&spage=A.15&au=Gore%2C+Al%3BBlood%2C+David&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
First is regulation that could strand assets in several ways: direct regulation on carbon led by authorities at the local, national, regional, or global level; indirect regulation through increased pollution controls, constraints on water usage, or policies targeting health concerns; and mandates on renewable energy adoption and efficiency standards. [...]sociopolitical pressures (e.g., fossil-fuel divestment campaigns, environmental advocacy, grass-roots protests and changing public opinion) could create an environment in which carbon-intensive businesses could lose their "license to operate," thereby stranding assets. 

Full Text 
After the credit crisis and Great Recession, it seemed ridiculous to have thought that investing in subprime mortgages was a good idea. As with most market "bubbles," the risk of giving 7.5 million mortgages to people who couldn't possibly pay them off was somehow invisible to many investors at the time. 
One reason such bubbles form is the tendency by many investors to confuse "risk" with "uncertainty." As the economist Frank Knight established, there is a subtle but crucial distinction between the two: Uncertainty is what good investors usually fear the most, because it cannot be measured or priced as risk can be. But when investors mislabel risk as uncertainty, they become vulnerable to the assumption that since it cannot be measured, they might as well ignore it. 
That is exactly what is happening with the subprime carbon asset bubble: It is still growing because most market participants are mistakenly treating carbon risk as an uncertainty, and are thus failing to incorporate it in investment analyses. By overlooking a known material-risk factor, investors are exposing their portfolios to an externality that should be integrated into the capital allocation process. 
Here is the relevance of carbon to investing: There is consensus within the scientific community that increasing the global temperature by more than 2 degrees C will likely cause devastating and irreversible damage to the planet. Reliable measurements make it clear that we will easily cross this threshold in the near term at our current rate of CO2 emissions. So in an effort to avoid it, the International Energy Agency has calculated a global "Carbon Budget" that accommodates the burning of merely one-third of existing fossil fuel reserves by 2050. Put differently, at least two-thirds of fossil fuel reserves will not be monetized if we are to stay below 2 degrees C of warming -- creating "stranded carbon assets." 
A stranded asset is one that loses economic value well ahead of its anticipated useful life. Stranded carbon assets include fossil fuels, as well as those assets which, given their dependence on fossil fuels, are also CO2-emissions intensive. Not all carbon-intensive assets are created equal, and it is reasonable to assume that in carbon-constrained scenarios the projects with the highest break-even costs and emissions profile (e.g., tar sands and coal) will be stranded first. 
Many investors cite what we believe is a misinformed view that carbon assets will not be vulnerable to stranding until a meaningful carbon price is enforced by a global accord. While a global price on carbon certainly would be important, we believe that investors are mistaken to assume that is the only path to stranding carbon assets. We believe that any such strategy is unwise and increasingly reckless -- because of three broad risks: 
First is regulation that could strand assets in several ways: direct regulation on carbon led by authorities at the local, national, regional, or global level; indirect regulation through increased pollution controls, constraints on water usage, or policies targeting health concerns; and mandates on renewable energy adoption and efficiency standards. Even the threat of impending regulation creates uncertainty for long-lived carbon-intensive assets. 
Second, stranding may occur as a result of market forces. Renewable technologies are already economically competitive with fossil fuels in a number of countries without subsidies. This cost competitiveness, combined with the ability to secure stable long-term prices for power, and an increase in distributed electricity models, could continue to shift capital allocation way from fossil fuels. 
Third, sociopolitical pressures (e.g., fossil-fuel divestment campaigns, environmental advocacy, grass-roots protests and changing public opinion) could create an environment in which carbon-intensive businesses could lose their "license to operate," thereby stranding assets. 
Delaying action to mitigate climate change will not delay climate change itself. As such, investors can strand fossil-fuel energy assets today, or absorb the cost of inaction by causing a much larger stranding across industries and asset classes in the future. The case to incorporate carbon risk into both equity and debt valuations now is one of short-and long-term prudent risk management. There are four principal ways investors can do this: 
First, identify carbon asset risks across portfolios. At a minimum, investors should determine the extent to which carbon risk is embedded in current and future investments. This can be achieved by, for example, considering the key drivers of a company's current and future asset base in the context of carbon risks and developing tools that quantify risks for valuations. Note that passive, index tracking funds should also identify their exposure to carbon risks since they too are vulnerable to stranding as fossil fuel-dependent assets make up roughly 10%-30% of most major exchanges. 
Second, engage corporate boards and executives on plans to mitigate and disclose carbon risks. Investors should ask questions like: Do companies have a shadow price on carbon (if not, why not?) and how does it impact their cash position? What is the amount of carbon they plan to burn and how does it relate to their long-term strategic plan? Investors should pressure executive teams to divert cash flow away from capital expenditures on developing fossil fuels and toward more productive uses in the context of a transition to a low carbon economy. 
Third, diversify investments into opportunities positioned to succeed in a low-carbon economy. Investors should tilt portfolios away from assets with embedded carbon risks and toward assets with low or no carbon emissions. Investors have the opportunity to capitalize on emerging solutions such as: energy generation (e.g., solar, wind, geothermal); buildings (e.g., insulating materials, lighting, metering); and transport (e.g., engines, electric vehicles, fleet logistics). This hedging strategy will buffer the impact an extreme carbon risk event might have on a portfolio while potentially capturing the upside of the transition away from fossil fuel assets. 
Fourth, divest fossil fuel assets. This is certainly the surest way to reduce carbon risk, though we fully recognize that divesting can be complicated and may be difficult for many asset owners. Such a transition could be phased in over several years, and there are gradations; early and easy progress can be made by at least divesting from the most emissions-intensive forms of energy -- especially since they are likely to face stranding well ahead of less carbon-intensive fossil fuels. 
In the words of President John F. Kennedy, "There are risks and costs to a program of action. But they are far less than the long-range risks and costs of comfortable inaction." The transition to a low carbon future will revolutionize the global economy and present significant opportunities for superior investment returns. However, investors must also acknowledge that carbon risk is real and growing. Inaction is no longer prudent. 
Mr. Gore is a former vice president of the United States and is now chairman of Generation Investment Management. Mr. Blood is senior partner of Generation Investment Management. 
(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: Blood and Gore and the Coming Carbon Asset Bubble" -- WSJ Nov. 4, 2013) 
Credit: By Al Gore and David Blood 
(c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Fossil fuels; 
Carbon; 
Subprime lending; 
Emissions 


Company / organization 	Name: International Energy Agency 

NAICS: 928120 


Title 	The Coming Carbon Asset Bubble 
Author 	Gore, Al; Blood, David 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.15 
Publication year 	2013 
Publication date 	Oct 30, 2013 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 	00999660 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	News 
ProQuest document ID 	1446862807 
Document URL 	https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1446862807?accountid=14902 
Copyright  (c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-21  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 345 of 376 


Mississippi Plant Shows The Cost of 'Clean Coal' 
Smith, Rebecca; McWhirter, Cameron.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]14 Oct 2013: A.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Mississippi+Plant+Shows+The+Cost+of+%27Clean+Coal%27&title=Wa 10-14&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Smith%2C+Rebecca%3BMcWhirter%2C+Cameron&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Mississippi Power Co.'s Kemper County plant here, meant to showcase technology for generating clean electricity from low-quality coal, ranks as one of the most-expensive U.S. fossil-fuel projects ever -- at $4.7 billion and rising. Ed Holland, chief executive of Mississippi Power, says the federal plan to limit greenhouse-gas emissions "bodes well for this technology." 

Full Text 
DEKALB, Miss. -- For decades, the federal government has touted a bright future for nonpolluting power plants fueled by coal. But in this rural corner of eastern Mississippi, the 

reality of so-called clean coal isn't pretty. 
Mississippi Power Co.'s Kemper County plant here, meant to showcase technology for generating clean electricity from low-quality coal, ranks as one of the most-expensive U.S. 
fossil-fuel projects ever -- at $4.7 billion and rising. Mississippi Power's 186,000 customers, who live in one of the poorest regions of the country, are reeling at double-digit rate 
increases. And even Mississippi Power's parent, Atlanta-based Southern Co., has said Kemper shouldn't be used as a nationwide model. 

Meanwhile, the plant hasn't generated a single kilowatt for customers, and it's anyone's guess how well the complex operation will work. The company this month said it would 

forfeit $133 million in federal tax credits because it won't finish the project by its May deadline. 
One of just three clean-coal plants moving ahead in the U.S., Kemper has been such a calamity for Southern that the power industry and Wall Street analysts say other utilities 
aren't likely to take on similar projects. 

Southern recently took $990 million in charges for cost overruns approaching $2 billion. The company's stock has been battered in the past year, and the company's market 
value has dropped $6.4 billion since April, to $35.8 billion. Mississippi Power's credit rating has dropped to three notches above junk. 

And clean coal's costs have looked even worse recently in comparison with a new inexpensive alternative: plants fueled by the natural gas unleashed by a U.S. drilling boom. 
Rising on what was once farmland here, the 582-megawatt Kemper plant is designed to convert a low grade of coal, lignite, into clean-burning syngas, which is similar to natural 
gas. As part of that process, the plant will strip out and capture 65% of the carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas, that would have been released into the atmosphere by burning 
coal. Turning coal to gas before burning it, or gasification, has proved necessary for capturing CO2 because efforts to cull it from plants that burn coal haven't been practical. 

Keeping CO2 out of the atmosphere is a goal of the Obama administration's since greenhouse gases have been implicated in climate change. The government last month set 
limits on CO2 emissions from new power plants and cited Kemper as evidence that power plants could meet the new standards. 
"We're confident plants of the future will be built with this technology," says Janet McCabe, acting assistant administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. 

Southern's view is more nuanced. 
Ed Holland, chief executive of Mississippi Power, says the federal plan to limit greenhouse-gas emissions "bodes well for this technology." While expensive, he says, it is "one of 
the few alternatives available allowing us to continue to use coal." 

But Southern last month said Kemper "cannot be consistently replicated on a national level" and therefore "should not serve as a primary basis for new emissions standards." 
Federal officials say it isn't unusual for new technology to be expensive at first and that clean coal's costs should come down over time. 
Through various subsidies, the federal government had committed nearly $700 million for the Mississippi Power plant. 
Demonstration projects haven't gone smoothly. The Department of Energy spent several hundred million dollars on two early clean-coal projects in the 1990s that had a series 

of technical problems. 
Southern proposed building a clean-coal plant in Florida in 2005 but canceled the project in 2007 after state officials expressed anticoal sentiments. 
Mississippi officials welcomed Kemper two years later, however. Republican Haley Barbour, governor at the time, was happy to see Mississippi Power use large deposits of lignite 

that had "virtually no value," he says today. He still supports the project, and his lobbying firm does work for Southern. 

The Mississippi Public Service Commission approved Kemper, fearing that the price of the natural gas that powers many plants in the state would increase, says Leonard Bentz, 
who was a commissioner until August. 
Mississippi Power told the commission in 2009 that natural gas could hit $20 per million British thermal units and would drop no lower than $7.38 between 2014 and 2054. 
Its forecast was made even after energy companies had discovered a way to pull gas from previously inaccessible shale-rock formations. The resulting glut means that natural-

gas prices haven't topped $6 per million BTUs since January 2009. Today, they are around $3.75. 

Jeff Burleson, vice president of system planning for Southern, says the projections look flawed today because the industry was "in transition from conventional gas to shale gas" in 2009. 
The company in June 2010 won state approval to go ahead with the project. 
Kemper's cost, previously projected at around $2.9 billion, soon began to soar. Southern recently estimated the price tag at $4.7 billion. The utility says it underestimated labor costs and the amount of steel pipe, concrete and other materials it would need for so big a plant. 
Because the state Legislature allowed Southern to charge customers for the plant's costs before it began generating power, customer rates began to rise, jumping 15% this year. 
Criticism has been growing from environmental groups, tea-party activists and some business leaders, who fear that rising electricity rates will make Mississippi less competitive. 
The state chapter of the Sierra Club, which has been trying to block the plant, says public opinion is shifting in the club's favor. 
Regulators and Southern agreed in January to cap costs that customers would cover at $2.88 billion, far below the $4.7 billion projected cost. But Southern recently won approval from the Legislature to sell up to $1 billion in bonds to help cover about half the difference; customers will repay the bonds through a surcharge on bills. 
"Cost overruns are not something we wanted, but we believe we've done right by customers" by splitting the cost between customers and shareholders, says company spokeswoman Christy Ihrig. 
Customers are not pleased. 
In Meridian, just south of Kemper County, Neubern Atkinson says his Lucas Road Art and Jewelry gallery hasn't recovered from the recession. "I'm already on a shoestring budget in this economy," the 66-year-old says, "and this may be the deciding factor in me staying open." 
Mississippians who still favor the plant mostly live around De Kalb, which has welcomed construction workers to its rentals and grocery stores. At the project site, cranes are in almost continuous operation. Six days a week, the sounds of welding, hammering and truck engines resound across the low hills. 
Faye Wilson, executive director of the Kemper County Chamber of Commerce, says the income will "benefit the county for years to come." 
Some locals have another reason to remain enthusiastic: They don't have to pay for the plant. Many Kemper County residents get power from the federal Tennessee Valley Authority, which charges some of the lowest electricity rates in the country. 
Credit: By Rebecca Smith and Cameron McWhirter 
(c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Emission standards; 
Environmental protection; 
Energy policy; 
Electric rates; 
Coal gasification; 

Coal-fired power plants; 
Clean technology 


Location 	Kemper County Mississippi 
Company / organization 	Name: Southern Co 

NAICS: 221112, 221122; 


Name: Mississippi Power Co NAICS: 221122 
Classification 	8340: Electric, water & gas utilities 

1540: Pollution control 

9190: United States 


Title 	Mississippi Plant Shows The Cost of 'Clean Coal' 
Author 	Smith, Rebecca; McWhirter, Cameron 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.1 
Publication year 	2013 
Publication date  Oct 14, 2013  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1441637262  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1441637262?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-20  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 346 of 376 


Cross Country: The War on Coal Is Punishing Indian Country 
Anderson, Terry L; Regan, Shawn.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]12 Oct 2013: A.11. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Cross+Country%3A+The+War+on+Coal+Is+Punishing+Indian+Coun 10-12&volume=&issue=&spage=A.11&au=Anderson%2C+Terry+L%3BRegan%2C+Shawn&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The Environmental Protection Agency recently ramped up its attack on coal by issuing stringent limits on carbon-dioxide emissions from new coal-fired generating plants, and the agency has more regulations in the works for existing power plants. 

Full Text 
To judge by the headlines and media chatter, the only important issue involving American Indians in Washington these days has to do with changing the name of the local pro football team. Those who care about real-world Indians might want to focus instead on how the Obama administration's hostility to the coal industry does more harm to Native Americans than any NFL franchise ever will. 
The Environmental Protection Agency recently ramped up its attack on coal by issuing stringent limits on carbon-dioxide emissions from new coal-fired generating plants, and the agency has more regulations in the works for existing power plants. The rules are considered tough enough to prevent any new coal plants from being built in the U.S. Such policies are just more bad news about coal in Indian Country, where the economic potential from energy is huge but the federal government virtually prohibits its development. 
Consider this: Indian reservations contain almost 30% of the nation's coal reserves west of the Mississippi, as well as significant deposits of oil, natural gas and uranium. The Council of Energy Resource Tribes, a tribal energy consortium, estimates the value of these resources at nearly $1.5 trillion. Yet these energy resources on Indian lands remain largely untapped, helping to lock Native Americans in a poverty trap. Indian incomes are about a third of those for all U.S. citizens, and unemployment rates are four times the national average. 
The Crow Indian reservation in Montana, with an unemployment rate of nearly 50%, for example, sits on one of the nation's largest coal reserves. Approximately half of the tribe's annual $27 million general fund comes from coal, but federal regulations prevent the tribe from fully capitalizing on this energy asset. The EPA's emission regulations makes building new plants impossible, and the Interior Department's approval process for all tribal coal leasing is slow and cumbersome. At a September meeting between tribal leaders and Democratic Sen. Maria Cantwell at the University of Montana, Crow tribal chairman Darrin Old Coyote put it plainly: "The war on coal is a war on our families and our children." 
The damage by government policy can come in a variety of forms. The Crow tribe has nine billion tons of clean coal that could easily be shipped to generating plants anywhere in the U.S. or exported to Asia. But many cities and towns along rail routes, citing concerns about train safety and the health effects of coal dust, are trying to limit coal-train traffic. Port cities such as Seattle and Portland are holding up construction of export terminals on the grounds that U.S. coal will contribute to global warming. 
Making matters worse, the Bureau of Indian Affairs -- the agency that oversees Indian interests -- also limits reservation energy development. The BIA severely restricts Indians' right to control their own land and, as a result, has left energy resources on reservations virtually moribund. 
The BIA's regulations also are impairing energy development on the Fort Peck Reservation in northeastern Montana by requiring an archaeological assessment before a company can begin oil and gas exploration on the reservation. Fort Peck tribal councilman Stoney Anketell notes the absurdity of this requirement: "We're not shortchanging the need for archaeological reviews, but on land that has been farmed for 70 years? It's been tilled, plowed, planted, harvested. There's no teepee rings." 
On the Fort Berthold reservation in North Dakota, special legislation passed in 1999 reduced several of the BIA restrictions on oil and gas leasing. As a result, since the Bakken shale-oil boom started in 2000, hundreds of reservation wells have earned the tribal nation more than $500 million. Nonetheless, even there, roughly twice as many oil and gas wells are drilled per acre outside the reservation as inside. Companies must go through only four steps to drill outside the reservation, compared with 49 steps, at four federal agencies, to drill on tribal land. 
None of this is to say that tribes should be required to develop their energy resources, but government agencies should not deprive them of the opportunity to benefit from the wealth of their land. Ron Crossguns of the Blackfeet tribe's oil and gas department puts it this way: "It's our right. We say yes or no. I don't think the outside world should come out here and dictate to us what we should do with our properties." 
Mr. Anderson is the president of the Property and Environment Research Center in Bozeman, Mont., and a senior fellow at Stanford University's Hoover Institution. Mr. Regan is a research fellow at PERC. 
Credit: By Terry L. Anderson and Shawn Regan 
(c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details 
Subject 
Federal regulation;  
Coal-fired power plants;  
Native North Americans;  
Coal industry;  
Emissions control  
Location  United States--US  
Classification  9190: United States  
8500: Extractive industries  
4310: Regulation  
Title  Cross Country: The War on Coal Is Punishing Indian Country  
Author  Anderson, Terry L; Regan, Shawn  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.11  
Publication year  2013  
Publication date  Oct 12, 2013  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1441396518  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1441396518?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-20  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 347 of 376 


Fighting Climate Change by Killing Eagles 
Bryce, Robert.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]11 Oct 2013: A.13. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Fighting+Climate+Change+by+Killing+Eagles&title=Wall+Street+Journa 10-11&volume=&issue=&spage=A.13&au=Bryce%2C+Robert&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Last year, global emissions of that gas totaled 34.5 billion tons. [...]the 60,000 megawatts of U.S. wind-generation capacity reduced global carbon-dioxide emissions by about two-tenths of 1%. 

Full Text 
For some environmentalists, the threat of climate change is so great that we must allow wind turbines to kill bald and golden eagles. The argument I've heard is that renewables, including wind energy, will reduce the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. Less carbon dioxide reduces the threat posed by climate change, which benefits eagles and other wildlife. 
In other words, we have to kill eagles in order to save them. 
If this sounds far-fetched, consider the notice that the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service published in the Federal Register on Sept. 27. It seeks public comment on a proposed permit that will allow a wind project to kill up to five golden eagles over a five-year period, despite their protected status under the Bald and Golden Eagle Protection Act. 
The permit is sought for the Shiloh IV Wind Project in Solano County, Calif. If it is granted, it would formally recognize a legal double standard that is already in existence with regard to wildlife protection in America. 
Wind projects routinely violate the Bald and Golden Eagle Protection Act and the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, but no wind farm has ever faced a single prosecution. Meanwhile, companies in the oil and gas industry and other sectors are routinely indicted for violating those same statutes. 
The illegal bird kills are not insubstantial. On Sept. 11, some of Fish and Wildlife's top raptor biologists published a study in the Journal of Raptor Research that found the number of eagles killed by wind turbines increased to 24 in 2011 from two in 2007. In all, some 85 eagles have been killed since 1997. Joel Pagel, the study's lead author, recently told me that the figure is "an absolute minimum." Among the carcasses: six bald eagles. 
Mr. Pagel's study was published just five months after Fish and Wildlife issued a report that stated "there are no conservation measures that have been scientifically shown to reduce eagle disturbance and blade-strike mortality at wind projects." So if more turbines are built, more eagles will be killed. 
Wind turbines overall kill some 573,000 birds per year including 83,000 birds of prey, according to a study this March in the Wildlife Society Bulletin. Yet the effect that wind power has on reducing global carbon-dioxide emissions is so small as to be insignificant. Elementary math proves that point. 
The American Wind Energy Association claims that in 2012 wind energy production reduced domestic CO2 emissions by 80 million tons. Last year, global emissions of that gas totaled 34.5 billion tons. Thus, the 60,000 megawatts of U.S. wind-generation capacity reduced global carbon-dioxide emissions by about two-tenths of 1%. To achieve a 1% reduction in global carbon-dioxide emissions, the U.S. would have to install at least 120,000 more turbines (assuming each machine has a capacity of two megawatts). 
Last year, all of the wind turbines on the planet provided the energy equivalent of about 2.4 million barrels of oil per day. But over the past decade, the annual increase in coal use averaged some 2.6 million barrels of oil equivalent per day. Merely to keep pace with the soaring growth in coal usage, the world's electricity producers would have to nearly replicate the entire global fleet of wind turbines -- some 285,000 megawatts of capacity, or roughly 142,000 turbines -- every year. 
There are two scandals here. First, wind turbines are killing legally protected eagles in the name of slowing climate change, but whatever reductions in carbon-dioxide emissions that may be occurring is equivalent to a baby's burp in a hurricane. 
Second, the wind-energy industry is lobbying to extend a production tax credit -- the 2.2 cent-per-kilowatt-hour subsidy that has fueled the turbine-building craze over the past few years. Last year the subsidy was extended for one year, at a cost to taxpayers of $12 billion. Another one-year extension will cost an additional $6.1 billion, according to a recent estimate by the congressional Joint Tax Committee. 
It's bad enough that this so-called green industry wants to continue killing eagles with impunity. Taxpayers should not be subsidizing the slaughter. 
Mr. Bryce is a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute. 
(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: Saving the Earth While Killing Some Protected Birds" -- WSJ Oct. 23, 2013) 
Credit: By Robert Bryce 
(c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Wind power;  
Climate change;  
Emissions;  
Carbon;  
Wildlife conservation  
Location  United States--US  
Company / organization  Name: American Wind Energy Association  
NAICS: 541820  
Title  Fighting Climate Change by Killing Eagles  
Author  Bryce, Robert  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.13  
Publication year  2013  
Publication date  Oct 11, 2013  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1441227925  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1441227925?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-20  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 348 of 376 


FERC Pick Withdraws Amid Opposition 
Tracy, Tennille.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]02 Oct 2013: A.5. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=FERC+Pick+Withdraws+Amid+Opposition&title=Wall+Street+Journal&is 10-02&volume=&issue=&spage=A.5&au=Tracy%2C+Tennille&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Mr. Obama's administration is creating rules to limit greenhouse gases from coal-fired power plants as part of an effort to reduce emissions by 17% by 2020, compared with 2005 levels. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- Ron Binz has formally withdrawn his nomination to head the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission after a mostly Republican bloc of senators said they would oppose his candidacy. 
Mr. Binz was President Barack Obama's pick to be the next FERC chairman, but Republicans and at least one Democrat on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee were lining up against him. The lawmakers said they were concerned Mr. Binz would use his job to demonize coal and natural gas as sources of power generation. 
Sen. Joe Manchin, a Democrat from the coal-rich state of West Virginia, in September said he would vote against Mr. Binz, making it clear the candidate didn't have enough votes to clear the energy panel and proceed to a full Senate vote. 
The withdrawal had been expected for several days, after the White House started to consider alternative candidates to the post late last week. 
Mr. Binz informed the president of his decision Monday. "We are grateful for Ron's willingness to serve and regret that qualified public servants continue to get obstructed by the Senate confirmation process," White House spokesman Eric Schultz said. 
Mr. Binz, the former head of Colorado's utility commission, said Tuesday he was withdrawing his name "so the president can move forward with another nominee, allowing the FERC to continue its important work with a full complement of commissioners." 
In the months since Mr. Binz was nominated in June, he had become a lightning rod for criticism of Mr. Obama's climate-change policies. While FERC has little influence over the types of fuels used to generate U.S. electricity, Mr. Binz had championed clean energy and had been instrumental in creating a Colorado law that created an incentive to decommission coal-fired plants. 
Mr. Obama's administration is creating rules to limit greenhouse gases from coal-fired power plants as part of an effort to reduce emissions by 17% by 2020, compared with 2005 levels. Republicans and other critics say the rules will expedite the retirement of coal plants and ban construction of them, destabilizing the power grid. 
Credit: By Tennille Tracy 
(c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Electric utilities; 

Nominations; 
Energy policy; 
Electricity distribution; 
Political appointments; 
Withdrawals 


Location 	Colorado; West Virginia 
People 	Obama, Barack; Binz, Ron 
Company / organization 	Name: Federal Energy Regulatory Commission--FERC 

NAICS: 926110, 926130 


Title 	FERC Pick Withdraws Amid Opposition 
Author  Tracy, Tennille  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.5  
Publication year  2013  
Publication date  Oct 2, 2013  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1438427058  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1438427058?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-20  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 349 of 376 


Climate of Uncertainty 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]01 Oct 2013: A.14. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Climate+of+Uncertainty&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660& 10-01&volume=&issue=&spage=A.14&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Here's the key paragraph, buried on page 10: "The observed reduction in surface warming trend over the period 1998-2012 as compared to the period 1951-2012, is due in roughly equal measure to a reduced trend in radiative forcing and a cooling contribution from internal variability, which includes a possible redistribution of heat within the ocean." 

Full Text 
Between 1998 and 2012 the global economy more than doubled in size -- to some $71 trillion in GDP from $30 trillion. That's the good news. Over the same period the world pumped more than 100 billion tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. That is supposedly the bad news. Yet global surface temperatures have remained essentially flat. That's the mystery: If emitting CO2 into the atmosphere causes global warming, why hasn't the globe been warming? 
That's the question we would have liked to see answered by the U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), which Friday published the summary of its fifth report on what co-chairman Thomas Stocker calls "the greatest challenge of our times." It would have also been nice to see some humility from the IPCC, which since its last report in 2007 has seen some of its leading scientists exposed as bullies, and some of its most eye-catching predictions debunked. (Remember the vanishing Himalayan glaciers?) 
No such luck. "Warming of the climate system is unequivocal," insists the report in its first bold-face conclusion, followed by the claim that "each of the last three decades has been successively warmer at the Earth's surface than any preceding decade since 1850." What follows are warnings of shrinking ice sheets, rapidly rising sea levels and other scary events. 
So what about the warming that hasn't been happening since 1998? Here's the key paragraph, buried on page 10: "The observed reduction in surface warming trend over the period 1998-2012 as compared to the period 1951-2012, is due in roughly equal measure to a reduced trend in radiative forcing and a cooling contribution from internal variability, which includes a possible redistribution of heat within the ocean." 
After noting that scientists have only low or medium confidence in various theories for this reduced warming trend, the report adds that "there may also be a contribution from forcing inadequacies and, in some models, an overestimate of the response to increasing greenhouse gas and other anthropogenic forcing." 
Translation: Temperatures have been flat for 15 years, nobody can properly explain it (though there are some theories), and the IPCC doesn't want to spend much time doing so because it is politically inconvenient and shows that the computer models on which all climate-change predictions depend remain unreliable. 
Though the IPCC doesn't admit it, the real lesson of its report is uncertainty. Droughts and hurricanes? Contrary to Al Gore's hype, the report acknowledges there's little evidence to suggest that climate change caused by man has had much to do with the duration of droughts or the intensity of hurricanes, although it might in the far future. 
Unbearable heat? The IPCC predicts that temperatures are "likely" to rise by somewhat more than 1.5 degrees Celsius throughout the rest of the century. But in 2007 the IPCC said they were "likely" to increase by more than 2 degrees, and "very unlikely" to increase by less than 1.5 degrees. 
It's also hard to take any of this as gospel when the IPCC's climate models haven't been able to predict past warming. As Canadian economist and longtime climate student Ross McKitrick points out, IPCC models based on CO2 emissions predicted that temperatures should have risen between 0.2 and 0.9 degrees Celsius since 1990. Instead they have increased by about 0.1 degrees. 
One lesson of the IPCC report is that now is the time for policy caution. Let's see if the nonwarming trend continues, in which case the climate models will need remodeling. But that's far less costly than trying to undo grand global redistribution schemes like carbon cap and trade. 
The other lesson is that amid such uncertainty the best insurance against adverse climate risks is robust economic growth. The wealthier the world is in 50 or 100 years, the more resources and technology it will have to cope if the worst predictions come true. But that requires free-market, pro-growth policies that are the opposite of the statist fixes pushed by the climate alarmists. 
They use the flimsy intellectual scaffolding of the IPCC report to justify killing the U.S. coal industry and the Keystone XL pipeline, banning natural gas drilling, imposing costly efficiency requirements for automobiles, light bulbs, washing machines and refrigerators, and using scarce resources to subsidize technologies that even after decades can't compete on their own in the marketplace. 
All of these involve giving more economic control to political actors whose interventions make the world poorer than it would otherwise be. When even the climate-change lobbyists at the IPCC concede that the world is warming at a slower pace than they once thought, it's no time for panicky rearranging of the global economy. 
(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: Climate Changes and What Most People Really Want" -- WSJ October 7, 2013) 
(c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Climate change;  
Carbon dioxide;  
Global warming;  
Economic growth;  
Environmental policy;  
Editorials -- Global warming  
Title  Climate of Uncertainty  
Author  Anonymous  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.14  
Publication year  2013  
Publication date  Oct 1, 2013  
column  REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  1437738753  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1437738753?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-20  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 350 of 376 


World News: U.N. Affirms Human Role in Global Warming --- Major Report Reasserts Link Between Rising Temperatures, Fossil Fuels; Warns of a Tipping Point With Severe Effects 
Naik, Gautam; Ledel, Johannes.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]28 Sep 2013: A.9. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=World+News%3A+U.N.+Affirms+Human+Role+in+Global+Warming+­
+Major+Report+Reasserts+Link+Between+Rising+Temperatures%2C+Fossil+Fuels%3B+Warns+of+a+Tipping+Point+With+Severe+Effects&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=0099 09-28&volume=&issue=&spage=A.9&au=Naik%2C+Gautam%3BLedel%2C+Johannes&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Of all the carbon dioxide emitted so far, two-thirds comes from burning fossil fuels and one-third from land-use change and deforestation, says the report. 

Full Text 
Corrections & Amplifications 
Between 1750 and 2011, human activity has released an estimated 545 metric gigatons of carbon. A World News article on Sept. 28 about a United Nations report on climate 

change incorrectly said that an estimated 545 gigatons of carbon dioxide had been released over that period. A metric gigaton of carbon is equivalent to 3.67 metric gigatons of 
carbon dioxide. 
(WSJ October 5, 2013) 
STOCKHOLM -- A landmark United Nations report issued Friday reaffirmed the growing belief that human activity is the dominant cause behind a rise in global temperatures and 

reiterated that a long-term planetary warming trend is expected to continue. 
The report could have a significant impact on policy-making because it asserts that human activity is pushing atmospheric carbon-dioxide concentrations toward levels whereby 

the surface temperatures may increase by 2 degrees Celsius. Many governments have pledged to try to keep the temperature rise below that level, which many scientists 
contend is a threshold beyond which the consequences of climate change will be severe. 
Between 1750 and 2011, human activity released 545 gigatons of carbon dioxide, the main greenhouse gas,according to the report. If a total of 1,000 gigatons is emitted, there 

is a one-in-three chance that the 2-degree limit will be breached, said Corinne Le Quere, a geophysicist at the University of East Anglia in the U.K. and a lead author of a chapter in the U.N. report. 
"We're eating up our allocation very rapidly. At the current rate, we'll hit the 1,000-gigaton-level sometime between 2040 and 2050," she added. 
Of all the carbon dioxide emitted so far, two-thirds comes from burning fossil fuels and one-third from land-use change and deforestation, says the report. However, in the last 
decade, 90% of the carbon dioxide released has come from burning fossil fuels, according to Dr. Le Quere. 

A summary of the report, the work of more than 800 scientists working for the U.N.'s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change over several years, said there is a 95% 
likelihood that humans are behind global warming, up from the 90% level of certainty in a similar 2007 report. 
The IPCC noted that air and oceans are getting warmer, ice and snow is less plentiful, and sea levels are rising. 

"Warming of the climate system is unequivocal, and since the 1950s, many of the observed changes are unprecedented over the millennia," the report says. 
The IPCC said the past three decades have been successively warmer at the Earth's surface that any preceding decade since 1850. That is "a robust signal of a changing 
planet," said IPCC co-chair Thomas Stocker at a news conference in Stockholm. 

At the same time, the IPCC has moderated projections of rising temperatures for the end of this century. The latest report outlines four scenarios, with the worst scenario 
predicting a possible increase of 4.8 degrees Celsius toward the end of the century. The prior report had outlined six scenarios, with the worst scenario peaking above 6 degrees 
Celsius. 

IPCC reports draw the attention of governments, environmentalists and key industries such as the oil, gas and coal sector because they provide the scientific backing for many 

policies on climate change. The narrower range of possible scenarios could help scientists and policy makers fine-tune their responses. 
The summary previews a full report that will be issued next week as part of the group's fifth assessment, which will come in several phases. It is considered a more definitive 
document than its predecessors because it incorporates more recent scientific findings, a larger set of satellite, oceanic and terrestrial measurements and more robust computer 
modeling. 

"Observations of changes in the climate system are based on multiple lines of independent evidence," said Qin Dahe, co-chair of the IPCC working group. 
The IPCC's credibility took a hit after some shoddy data made its way into the 2007 report, including a claim that Himalayan glaciers would melt by 2035. 
More recently, climate change science has come under attack because of a flattening of temperatures over the past 15 years, even though greenhouse gas emissions have 

continued to rise. 
Scientists at the IPCC played down the apparent slowdown, arguing that a 15-year period is too short to reflect long-term climate trends. 

Among the factors that could be behind the apparent slowdown are a cooling of the Pacific Ocean, a natural change in the 11-year solar cycle and nearly a dozen volcanic eruptions since 2005, which can spew sunlight-blocking particles into the atmosphere. 
"We couldn't attribute exactly what was the contribution from each of these factors," said Dr. Le Quere. "But the overall picture is that the earth is continuing to take up heat even when the surface is warming slowly." 
Credit: By Gautam Naik and Johannes Ledel 
(c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Climate change; 
Carbon dioxide; 
Greenhouse effect; 
Global warming 


Company / organization 	Name: United Nations--UN 

NAICS: 928120 


Title 	World News: U.N. Affirms Human Role in Global Warming --- Major Report Reasserts Link 
Between Rising Temperatures, Fossil Fuels; Warns of a Tipping Point With Severe Effects 

Author 	Naik, Gautam; Ledel, Johannes 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.9 
Publication year 	2013 
Publication date 	Sep 28, 2013 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 	00999660 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	News 
ProQuest document ID 	1437303203 
Document URL 	https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1437303203?accountid=14902 
Copyright 	(c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further 
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Last updated 	2017-11-20 
Database 	US Newsstream 
document 351 of 376 


World News: Cargo Ship Carves A Path in Arctic Sea 
Dawson, Chester.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]26 Sep 2013: A.11. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=World+News%3A+Cargo+Ship+Carves+A+Path+in+Arctic+Sea&title=W 09-26&volume=&issue=&spage=A.11&au=Dawson%2C+Chester&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
A coal-laden cargo ship is on track to become the first bulk carrier to traverse the Northwest Passage through Canada's Arctic sea waters, blazing a trail that shippers hope will become a time-saving route in global trade. 

Full Text 
A coal-laden cargo ship is on track to become the first bulk carrier to traverse the Northwest Passage through Canada's Arctic sea waters, blazing a trail that shippers hope will become a time-saving route in global trade. 
Traveling with a Canadian Coast Guard escort, the Nordic Orion underscores Ottawa's recent efforts to bolster a thin presence in its vast Arctic territory. Experts say the country already has fallen behind Russia, which is developing a series of Arctic ports and has a fleet of ice breakers keeping open its competing Northern Sea Route. 
The vessel, which left Vancouver on Sept. 17 carrying 15,000 metric tons of coal, is off the coast of Greenland and is expected to dock in Pori, Finland, next week after chugging through waters once choked almost year-round with thick sea ice. 
In recent years, the Arctic region has drawn interest on the international stage as global warming makes access to resource development easier and opens these trade routes to more ships, even as questions remain about the Canadian sea lane's commercial viability. 
"The melting in various places is alarming, but it's creating opportunities that weren't there before," said Edward Coll, the Newport, R.I.-based CEO of Bulk Partners, the holding company that owns Nordic Orion. 
Bulk Partners said Nordic Orion's route will shave off four days of travel time, or nearly 1,500 nautical miles, worth as much as $200,000 in savings. The dry-goods shipper said despite additional expenses on this journey, being the first across the route, it went ahead because of strong Canadian government backing. 
"We had the support of people in the government there to do it, and without them, honestly, we could not have done it, nor would we have," Mr. Coll said. 
Credit: By Chester Dawson 
(c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Cargos; 
Shipping industry; 
Water transportation; 
Routes 


Location 	Arctic Ocean; Northwest Passage; Canada 
Classification 	9172: Canada 

8350: Transportation & travel industry 


Title 	World News: Cargo Ship Carves A Path in Arctic Sea 
Author 	Dawson, Chester 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.11 
Publication year 	2013 
Publication date  Sep 26, 2013  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1436539639  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1436539639?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-20  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 352 of 376 


Banning Demon Coal 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]25 Sep 2013: A.16. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Banning+Demon+Coal&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&d 09-25&volume=&issue=&spage=A.16&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
New plants could theoretically install carbon capture and sequestration technologies (CCS) to get below the EPA's carbon ceiling, but it will be impossible for utilities to finance new projects with these unproven systems that require billions of dollars of capital investment. 

Full Text 
One mystery of U.S. politics is why Al Gore, California billionaire Tom Steyer and the green lobby view President Obama as a disaster for global warming. Maybe nobody could satisfy their ambitions. But the reality is that the White House is gradually enacting their anticarbon agenda through regulation. 
Mr. Steyer and the rest notched another victory Friday as the Environmental Protection Agency imposed a de facto ban on new coal-fired electric power. The rule does not yet apply to existing coal plants that still provide about 40% of U.S. electricity, though that day will come soon. The meaning of Friday's rule is that the EPA is banning coal -- the second largest source of carbon emissions after petroleum -- from the future energy mix. 
The EPA admits as much in the 463-page document, noting that "few, if any" plants will be built "in the foreseeable future." For this reason, "the EPA projects that this proposed rule will result in negligible CO2 emission changes, quantified benefits, and costs by 2022." Got that? The EPA is conceding that it has shut down coal development for at least the next decade, even if that doesn't reduce carbon emissions. 
EPA chief Gina McCarthy nonetheless felt it politically necessary to disown the regulatory war on coal that she is obviously waging. At a breakfast this week she argued that the economics of coal power are bad because low gas prices have made coal "not really the fuel of choice" and that the new rule won't have "a significant immediate impact." 
But then why issue the rule at all in return for "negligible" benefits? Probably because she and the shrewder environmentalists know that the fuel is still viable and might rebound if natural gas prices rise. The EPA is guaranteeing that won't happen. 
The rule creates a 1,100-pound limit per megawatt hour on carbon, while even the most modern, advanced coal plants put out 1,800 pounds or more. New plants could theoretically install carbon capture and sequestration technologies (CCS) to get below the EPA's carbon ceiling, but it will be impossible for utilities to finance new projects with these unproven systems that require billions of dollars of capital investment. That's why the EPA estimates the rule will have "negligible" economic costs as well. 
The law requires the EPA to certify that the technology the agency mandates be proven and demonstrated in practice, but there are only two CCS projects now under construction -- in Kemper County, Mississippi and Saskatchewan, Canada. Others are merely on the drawing board. When questioned last week about Kemper's budget overruns despite federal subsidies, Ms. McCarthy admitted the project isn't "really a good model" because it is "actually very unique." 
These and other legal ambiguities mean the coal ban will be litigated for years. EPA first proposed this rule in April 2012, then withdrew it to add more legal armor-plating (and get past the election) when even the EPA's allies said it wouldn't survive judicial scrutiny. 
Next year the EPA will propose a rule to impose vast new anticarbon costs on existing plants in a bid to eliminate what remains of coal power. The target after that will be natural gas, and anything else that emits the demon carbon. 
(c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Energy policy; 
Environmental protection; 
Electricity distribution; 
Natural gas prices; 
Coal-fired power plants; 
Bans; 

Editorials -- Energy policy 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Obama, Barack; Steyer, Tom 
Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 

NAICS: 924110 


Classification  9190: United States  
1520: Energy policy  
1530: Natural resources  
1540: Pollution control  
Title  Banning Demon Coal  
Author  Anonymous  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.16  
Publication year  2013  
Publication date  Sep 25, 2013  
column  REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  1435828302  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1435828302?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-20  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 353 of 376 


U.S. Coal Vs. the World 
Denning, Liam.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]23 Sep 2013: C.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+Coal+Vs.+the+World&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=009996 09-23&volume=&issue=&spage=C.1&au=Denning%2C+Liam&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
In 2010 and 2011, major U.S. miners Arch Coal Inc., Alpha Natural Resources, Peabody Energy Corp. and Walter Energy Inc. announced multi-billion dollar deals to buy miners of metallurgical coal such as Massey Energy Co. and International Coal Group. 

Full text 
[Financial Analysis and Commentary] 
In case you hadn't heard, there is a war on coal. 
But climate change is just one front -- the U.S. coal industry's adversaries range from Beijing's coughing commuters to Australia's ailing dollar. And while many coal-mining stocks have crumbled in the face of this pressure, investors should remember that the shares are cheap for good reasons. 
New regulations from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency announced Friday effectively make it almost unthinkable to build new coal-fired power plants, which account for more than 90% of U.S. coal consumption. The EPA aside, And it is hard to see many new coal-fired plants sprouting in the U.S. anyway. Cheap natural gas from shale is a formidable competitor. U.S. coal consumption fell 238 million tons, or 21%, between 2007 and 2012, according to the Department of Energy. 
U.S. coal has tried to adapt with acquisitions and exports. But the first approach hasn't worked well and the second may have reached its limit. 
In 2010 and 2011, major U.S. miners Arch Coal Inc., Alpha Natural Resources, Peabody Energy Corp. and Walter Energy Inc. announced multi-billion dollar deals to buy miners of metallurgical coal such as Massey Energy Co. and International Coal Group. Metallurgical, or coking, coal is a key ingredient for making steel and isn't tied to U.S. power markets. 
When the deals were announced, China's imports of coking coal were soaring to feed its steel mills, rising to almost 50 million tons in 2011 from less than 8 million tons in 2008, according to HSBC. The price jumped to more than $300 a metric ton in early 2011 from about $130 in 2009. Today, coking coal trades at about $150 in the spot market. 
Coking coal has been creeping up in price this summer, and analysts expect contracts signed for the fourth quarter to be around $150 to $160. And even small price moves can have a big impact on profits. 
For example, BB&T Capital Markets analyst Mark Levin estimates that every $10 increase in the price boosts Alpha's estimated 2014 earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization by $190 million, or 45% above what he would otherwise expect. 
But debt burdens are high. Even assuming $170 coking coal, Alpha's net debt would be almost seven times Ebitda, according to Mr. Levin. Including unfunded employee obligations, average net debt to 2013 Ebitda for five of the largest miners stood at almost 13 times at the end of June, according to Andy DeVries at CreditSights. Some miners are better positioned than others in relative terms. Consol Energy Inc., for example, has a gas business that offers a hedge to coal pricing. 
Their sensitivity to coal-price moves, and battered share prices, mean these stocks can rise sharply on any good news. But investors should keep in mind that the pressing need to strengthen mining balance sheets means such rallies could prompt equity issuance. 
The miners would have good reason to raise equity quickly, as rallies aren't likely to last. While HSBC projects Chinese coking-coal imports to hit more than 100 million tons by 2016, U.S. exports to the country have likely peaked already. 
That is because rivals are taking market share. Australia has rebounded from floods in 2011, and a weaker currency has made it more competitive. While Tudor, Pickering, Holt & Co. expects U.S. coking-coal exports to drop slightly this year, it sees Australian exports rising 14%. 
Received wisdom says Chinese coal demand is insatiable. The International Energy Agency doesn't see it peaking until sometime in the 2020s. 
But it could happen sooner. As China seeks to boost consumption and services, the electricity required to generate each incremental yuan of gross domestic product should decline. Furthermore, a slower pace of infrastructure investment should curb growth in Chinese steel demand. Meanwhile, ferocious smog in Beijing and elsewhere has sparked protests, prompting a government pledge this month to cut coal use in eastern parts of the country. 
Compounding the issue for U.S. miners is that China's own coal industry is improving. Sanford C. Bernstein points out that the country's top 55 miners account for more of China's coal production, suggesting smaller, less-efficient operators are being acquired or squeezed out. And consolidation, as well as China's growing rail network, should ultimately reduce the cost of domestic coal, further limiting the need for imports. Bernstein sees Chinese coal imports peaking in 2015. U.S. coal miners can hardly expect the likes of India and Europe to pick up all the slack. 
Investors in coal might feel paranoid. But remember: It isn't paranoia if the world really is out to get you. 
Credit: By Liam Denning 

(c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Coal mining; US exports; Coal industry; Heard on the street (wsj)  
Location  Australia; Beijing China; United States--US  

Company / organization 
Classification 
Name: Walter Energy Inc 

NAICS: 213113; 

Name: Alpha Natural Resources Inc 

NAICS: 212112; 

Name: Consol Energy Inc 

NAICS: 211111, 212112, 213113, 237210; 


Name: International Coal Group 

NAICS: 551112, 213113; 


Name: Massey Energy Co 

NAICS: 212112; 

Name: Peabody Energy Corp 

NAICS: 212112; 

Name: Arch Coal Inc 

NAICS: 212111, 212112; 


Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 

NAICS: 924110; 

Name: Department of Energy 

NAICS: 926130 


3400: Investment analysis & personal finance 

8500: Extractive industries 

9180: International 



Title  U.S. Coal Vs. the World  
Author  Denning, Liam  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  C.1  

Publication year  2013  
Publication date  Sep 23, 2013  
column  Heard on the Street  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1434721065  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1434721065?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-20  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 354 of 376 


Energy: Unleashing Innovation (A Special Report) --- Six Myths About Renewable Energy: So, you think renewables are a speck on the energy landscape? That they can create millions of green jobs? Think again 
Johnson, Keith.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]23 Sep 2013: R.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Energy%3A+Unleashing+Innovation+%28A+Special+Report%29+­
+Six+Myths+About+Renewable+Energy%3A+So%2C+you+think+renewables+are+a+speck+on+the+energy+landscape%3F+That+they+can+create+millions+of+green+jobs% 09-23&volume=&issue=&spage=R.1&au=Johnson%2C+Keith&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
MYTH NO. 1 RENEWABLES ARE AN INSIGNIFICANT SOURCE OF POWER One of the most persistent criticisms of renewables is that they account for a fraction of the U.S. electricity system -- despite years of federal subsidies and breakneck growth. MYTH NO. 2 RENEWABLES CAN REPLACE ALL FOSSIL FUELS The flip side of critiques of renewable energy is boosterism. 

Full Text 
Old ideas die hard. The country has been debating renewable energy for decades -- how much we should support it, what place it should have in our energy policy, how big an impact it actually has. Yet many of the things we think we know about renewable energy go back to the earliest arguments. Many of the debating points we hear today are based on outdated facts and assumptions that don't hold up anymore. So, we set out to look at a few persistent myths or beliefs held by both supporters and critics of renewable energy. We've focused largely on wind and solar power, in part because they've shown explosive growth in recent years but also because they are at the center of political debates over energy. 
MYTH NO. 1 
RENEWABLES ARE AN INSIGNIFICANT SOURCE OF POWER 
One of the most persistent criticisms of renewables is that they account for a fraction of the U.S. electricity system -- despite years of federal subsidies and breakneck growth. 
When looking at "newer" renewable energies such as wind and solar power, that's largely true. Wind accounts for about 5% of generation capacity and a little over 4% of U.S. electricity production, or roughly one-tenth what coal provides. 
But the criticism overlooks one important point: Conventional hydroelectric power, such as the Hoover Dam, is also renewable energy. Taken together, hydroelectric and other sources -- biomass, geothermal, solar and wind -- combined to account for 12% of U.S. electricity production last year, and close to 14% so far this year. The entire nuclear fleet provides about 19%. 
It's also important to remember the scale of the country's renewable efforts. The U.S. has the second-biggest electricity system in the world, accounting for about 20% of the entire world's generation capacity. Wind power's 5% of that pie is a big slice. The 60-odd gigawatts of wind power installed in the U.S. amounts to more electricity-generation capacity than in the entire country of Australia or Saudi Arabia, and as much as all of Mexico. It's about half as much power as in France or Brazil. 
To be sure, the wind doesn't always blow. Wind farms produce only about one-third of their listed capacity, while a nuclear plant produces almost 100%. But even that discounted amount of electricity generated by U.S. wind farms is huge in global terms -- 54% of all the juice generated by Mexico, 26% of France and Brazil, 62% of Australia, 64% of Turkey and more than twice that of Switzerland. 
The seemingly small share of power produced by renewable energy at the national level also reflects the fact that some states have a lot of green power and some have practically none. Texas has the biggest electricity system in the country, and gets 11% of its juice from renewables, nearly all from wind. New York and Georgia both have large power sectors, but get relatively small amounts from renewables. 
MYTH NO. 2 
RENEWABLES CAN REPLACE ALL FOSSIL FUELS 
The flip side of critiques of renewable energy is boosterism. A handful of proponents describe a future where 100% of energy needs can be met affordably and reliably by renewables. 
Focusing on electricity, researchers at the National Renewable Energy Laboratory tackled this question. They found that, technically, by 2050 the U.S. could get 80% of its electricity from renewable energy and keep the lights on every hour, every day, in every corner of the country. (Their study didn't consider a 100%-renewable scenario.) 
Perhaps. But getting there would be a long, tough slog. The study found that the U.S. would need to install about 20,000 megawatts of renewable generating capacity every year for a couple of decades, gradually ramping up to about 40,000 megawatts every year. The study found no reason to doubt the global renewable-energy industry's ability to eventually meet that level of production. What might be trickier, the study found, is finding a place to put all those wind farms, solar arrays and hydroelectric facilities. 
Managing the big upfront capital costs of wind and solar power would be another obstacle. And down the road there could be another challenge: Areas with lots of variable power could see wholesale power prices close to zero at times. That would complicate the economic case for fresh investments in generation capacity year after year. 
The U.S. would also need to virtually duplicate the entire existing network of transmission lines by 2050 to handle 80% renewable energy. The study notes that the trick would be figuring out where the lines would go, who would pay for them, and which state and local governments would be in charge. 
In other words, there's no technical reason renewable energy can't provide 80% of the power in the U.S. by midcentury. But there are a host of challenges that would have to be met first. 
MYTH NO. 3 
RENEWABLES ARE TOO EXPENSIVE 
Forget about problems down the road. Another criticsm of renewables in the here and now: They're expensive ways to generate electricity. 
One new, comprehensive comparison of wholesale electricity prices, in the Journal of Environmental Studies and Sciences, concludes that coal-generated power costs 3 cents a kilowatt-hour; new gas plants would produce juice at 6.2 cents; wind power costs 8 cents; and solar photovoltaic, 13.3 cents. 
But there are two big issues to bear in mind. First, costs are falling fast -- thanks largely to technological advances such as larger wind turbines and cheaper components for solar-power arrays -- so in some places, solar and wind power can cost even less. 
The latest price data for wind-energy power-purchase agreements, released by the Department of Energy last month, showed that nationwide, the price of wind-generated electricity fell to just over 4 cents per kilowatt-hour nationwide, not counting the 2.2-cent federal tax subsidy. In some regions, well-sited wind farms produce electricity for closer to 2 cents. 
Likewise, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory just released its latest report on the costs of installing solar power. Costs for small-scale solar residential arrays fell by about 13% in the past year, driven largely by cheaper solar components due to a global supply glut. Utility-scale prices also fell. 
There's also the question of hidden costs. Coal-fired electricity, for instance, has nasty side effects, including air pollution, health impacts and carbon-dioxide emissions that contribute to global warming (all of which factored into the Obama administration's proposal Friday for new limits on coal emissions) -- and those don't show up in coal's price tag. If coal and other fossil fuels had to tally the total costs their use imposed on society, coal wouldn't be the cheapest source of electricity, and clean-burning renewables wouldn't look nearly so pricey. 
Add all the hidden costs together, and the total cost of different power sources looks quite different, according to that recently published study. At an existing coal-fired plant, the cost goes up by 6 cents per kilowatt-hour, making its true cost 9 cents; at a new coal plant, it would go up by about 4 cents to 13.2 cents. New natural-gas-fired electricity would go up by 1.3 cents, bringing its total to 7.5 cents. But wind and solar and nuclear energy don't go up -- because they don't cause asthma, and they don't emit carbon dioxide. 
A few cautions when comparing the cost of different power sources. Gas plants are often used to meet peaking power demand, when they can fetch higher prices. Solar power also produces during hours of high demand, and its power is more valuable. But wind power produces more at night and less in the daytime, so its electricity is less valuable to the system. 
Furthermore, different energy sources have additional costs that muddy direct comparisons. Nuclear plants have decommissioning costs, waste storage and liabilities that aren't always fully priced in. Variable sources such as wind and solar power need extra transmission lines and special efforts to integrate their power into the grid, which isn't included in the cost. 
MYTH NO. 4 
VARIABILITY DOOMS RENEWABLE ENERGY 
The sun doesn't always shine, and the wind doesn't always blow, so wind farms and solar arrays generally punch below their weight. A 100-megawatt wind farm will generate on average the equivalent of 34 megawatts of power that's available full time. 
Granted, there are forms of renewable energy that almost always generate power: geothermal plants and hydroelectric facilities, for example. But since the bulk of growth in renewables in the U.S. comes from wind and solar power, their variability is a flashpoint for critics and a technical challenge for grid operators. Variability costs money to deal with, requires some level of backup power to offset and can even lead to renewable-energy generation being wasted, note researchers at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. When power-grid operators either don't want or can't handle wind power, for instance, they just dump it -- a process called curtailment. 
Still, things are improving rapidly. Consider the situation with wind power. Curtailments have fallen steadily in recent years as system operators have gotten better at using forecasting and integrating wind power. Investment in new transmission lines has also picked up pace, enabling wind farms in isolated locations to offer power more readily to a wider area. 
That is the key to overcoming the natural variability of renewables such as wind and solar power. Individual wind farms may be very volatile. But scores of wind farms over thousands of square miles show less volatility -- the wind is always blowing somewhere. As grid operators have added more wind in more locations to their systems, as well as the lines to carry that wind, integrating wind power into the electricity system has become easier. 
Take Texas. Four years ago, facing severe transmission constraints, the state was dumping 17% of all the wind power it produced. In 2012, after adding more wind farms and almost 2,600 miles of transmission lines, curtailments were below 4%, and wind power provided 10% of the electricity in the nation's biggest power market. 
MYTH NO. 5 
CHEAP NATURAL GAS IS THE ENEMY OF RENEWABLE ENERGY 
With the boom in U.S. natural-gas production, many concluded that renewable energies would be battered by a relatively clean, cheap fuel source. While natural gas has transformed the electricity sector, gas and renewables are actually complementary, not rivals. 
A glance at national trends makes clear that the two energy sources can grow together. Natural-gas electricity generation rose 34% from 2009 to 2012. Wind generation rose 92% in the same period and solar generation almost fourfold, though the renewables grew from a much smaller base. 
Granted, cheap natural gas makes it difficult for wind power to compete without federal subsidies. But researchers are finding that gas and wind complement each other as part of a balanced electricity-generation portfolio. 
Look at it from a utility's perspective. Natural-gas plants have low upfront costs, don't rely on fickle federal subsidies, and their output can be dispatched to meet swings in power demand. Gas, therefore, gives reliable power now, with little worry in the short term about federal policies. 
But over the longer term, volatile gas prices could be deadly -- as could environmental rules from Washington. That makes the wind farms and other renewable-energy projects an appealing way to hedge. Almost all of their costs are up front -- there's no fuel to buy, so no worries about volatile prices. Because renewable energy doesn't produce any harmful emissions, it doesn't face the specter of future federal rules -- and indeed could benefit from state rules mandating green power. 
MYTH NO. 6 
RENEWABLE ENERGY MEANS MILLIONS OF GREEN JOBS 
During the 2008 campaign, Barack Obama touted the prospect that investing in clean energy could produce five million "green jobs." The idea of creating jobs helped underpin the $90 billion clean-energy stimulus in 2009 and later efforts, and remains a staple of administration rhetoric. 
But renewable energy has not been the job creator that its boosters envisioned. While the amount of wind and solar power has more than doubled since President Obama took office, renewable-energy jobs have not. 
The hardest part of sizing up green jobs is figuring out what a green job is. The Bureau of Labor Statistics came up with an expansive definition: goods or services that benefit the environment or make a company more environmentally friendly. According to the most recent data from the BLS, the U.S. had 3.4 million green jobs in 2011. But the categories are generous, to say the least. Private-sector green jobs included petroleum and coal-products manufacturing (3,244 jobs); school and employee bus drivers (166,916); logging (8,837); paper mills (18,167); and iron and steel mills (33,812). The numbers get so fuzzy as to become all but meaningless as an indicator of employment potential from clean energy. 
Direct-employment numbers from renewable energies are clearer. In 2012, the wind industry said it employed about 81,000, the solar industry employed about 119,000, and geothermal energy may have employed about 20,000. The Hydropower Association estimates the sector employs between 200,000 and 300,000 people today. 
Not only are those numbers quite modest, but in broad terms they haven't increased much since 2008, before the recent strong growth in renewables. In 2008, the wind industry said it employed about 85,000 people. So while installed wind capacity more than doubled, wind employment shrank. Solar employment stood at about 93,000 in 2010. Two years -- and a ninefold increase in solar power -- later, solar employment had increased just 28%. 
The contrast between the promise and the reality of green jobs becomes even clearer when compared with other energy sectors. Coal, for example, is shrinking as a share of the U.S. electricity mix. Nevertheless, total coal-sector employment of about 150,000 is the highest since the mid-1990s. 
And, by far, the biggest jobs story in the energy patch has come from the oil and gas boom. According to a fresh study by energy consultancy IHS Cera, unconventional oil and gas production -- hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, for natural gas and tight oil -- accounted for about 360,000 direct jobs. 
Mr. Johnson is a reporter in The Wall Street Journal's Washington bureau. Email: keith.johnson@wsj.com. 
Credit: By Keith Johnson 
(c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Alternative energy sources; 

Wind power; 

Capital costs; 

Series & special reports; 
Energy policy; 
Renewable resources; 
Job creation 


Location 	United States--US 
Title 	Energy: Unleashing Innovation (A Special Report) --- Six Myths About Renewable Energy: So, 
you think renewables are a speck on the energy landscape? That they can create millions of 
green jobs? Think again 

Author 	Johnson, Keith 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	R.1 
Publication year 	2013 
Publication date 	Sep 23, 2013 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Feature  
ProQuest document ID  1434721040  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1434721040?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-20  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 355 of 376 


U.S. News: EPA Turns Up Heat On New Coal Plants 
Tracy, Tennille.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]21 Sep 2013: A.3. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+EPA+Turns+Up+Heat+On+New+Coal+Plants&title=Wa 09-21&volume=&issue=&spage=A.3&au=Tracy%2C+Tennille&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The Environmental Protection Agency unveiled its proposal to limit greenhouse gases from new coal-fired power plants, setting up a battle with companies that say tougher standards require the use of costly and largely unproven technology. 

Full Text 
The Environmental Protection Agency unveiled its proposal to limit greenhouse gases from new coal-fired power plants, setting up a battle with companies that say tougher standards require the use of costly and largely unproven technology. 
The proposal, released Friday, requires new coal plants to limit their emissions to 1,100 pounds of carbon dioxide per megawatt hour, about 700 fewer pounds than most modern-day coal units. The only way to meet the standard is to use cutting-edge technology that captures carbon dioxide before it is released into the atmosphere. 
The rule is a key part of President Barack Obama's climate-change plan, announced in June. 
The EPA says it needs to address power-plant emissions, which account for about one-third of all greenhouse-gas emissions. The agency, after finishing its standards for new plants, plans to tackle emissions from the fleet of existing plants. 
Technology known as carbon capture and storage, which is required to meet the new EPA standard, isn't currently used at any commercial-scale power plant. The EPA says it is confident it is a viable option and cites the progress made by a handful of companies planning to employ the technology. 
Of the projects, a plant known as the Kemper County Energy Facility is the only one under construction in the U.S. Located in Mississippi, the 580-megawatt plant will gasify coal and capture 65% of the carbon dioxide. Kemper's parent company, Southern Co., says the facility should be up and running by May. 
The power industry says the Kemper plant shouldn't be used as a model for what all future coal-fired units must do. The Kemper plant is uniquely situated next to a coal mine owned by its parent company, which eliminates transportation costs, and will be able to sell captured emissions to two oil companies. 
"This project, while admirable, is not a basis for what future coal plants can do," said Paul Bailey, a senior vice president at the American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity, a group that represents power companies and coal producers. 
EPA chief Gina McCarthy said Friday Kemper is "not a good model" for future plants because of its unique characteristics. But she said other plants in planning offered examples of how carbon capture is feasible today. 
Two other plants cited by the EPA are the Texas Clean Energy Project and the Hydrogen Energy California Project. Neither facility is under construction yet. 
The courts have previously deferred to the agency to determine what is achievable, supporters of the rule said. 
Keith Johnson contributed to this article. 
Credit: By Tennille Tracy 
(c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Industrial plant emissions; 

Carbon sequestration; 
Greenhouse gases; 
Pollution control; 
Emission standards; 
Coal-fired power plants 


People 	Obama, Barack 
Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 
NAICS:  924110;  
Name:  American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity  
NAICS:  813312, 813910  

Classification  8340: Electric, water & gas utilities  
1540: Pollution control  
9190: United States  
Title  U.S. News: EPA Turns Up Heat On New Coal Plants  
Author  Tracy, Tennille  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.3  
Publication year  2013  
Publication date  Sep 21, 2013  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1434385812  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1434385812?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-20  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 356 of 376 


Target: Natural Gas 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]14 Sep 2013: A.12. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Target%3A+Natural+Gas&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660 09-14&volume=&issue=&spage=A.12&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Duke Energy CEO Jim Rogers challenged him by noting that the 2009 Pelosi cap-and-trade bill hadn't passed, yet utilities have since cut carbon emissions sharply by switching to natural gas from coal. [...]Mr. Binz's alternatives to gas are green "renewables" like wind and solar. 

Full Text 
The oil and gas fracking boom increased household disposable income by $1,200 last year as lower energy costs flowed to consumers, according to a new study from IHS Global Insight. So Americans may want to know that President Obama's nominee to chair the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) thinks natural gas is a "dead end." 
That nominee is Ron Binz, and in March 2013 he spoke at an Edison Foundation panel on utilities and green technologies. To fight global warming, he argued, government must adopt a "new regulatory model, because that's where it's going to start." 
Duke Energy CEO Jim Rogers challenged him by noting that the 2009 Pelosi cap-and-trade bill hadn't passed, yet utilities have since cut carbon emissions sharply by switching to natural gas from coal. This shift is "an incredible example" of how "policy didn't get done, but at the end of the day technology produced the result. You seem to believe that this transition will only happen if it's driven by policy," Mr. Rogers asked. 
"Well, natural gas is a good example," Mr. Binz replied, meaning of his policy preferences. "It's been called for many years a transition fuel. The industry has sort of jettisoned that label lately. It seems to be a permanent fuel. On a carbon basis you hit the wall in 2035 or so with gas. I mean, you do." 
Mr. Binz said switching to gas might be "a good move" for the interim, "but we also need to understand that without CCS, without carbon capture and storage, I think that's a dead end, a relative dead end -- it won't dead end until 2035 or so. But that's when we need to do better on carbon than even natural gas will allow us to do under current assumptions." 
So there it is: Natural gas is a dead end not because there will be too little gas but because by 2035 it won't reduce carbon emissions as much as Mr. Binz wants. 
Naturally, Mr. Binz's alternatives to gas are green "renewables" like wind and solar. Or so he said at a November 2012 forum at the University of Denver, citing research from the federal National Renewable Energy Laboratory. The 2012 study does show that the 80% scenario is theoretically possible, but only if the assumptions are wildly unrealistic. The lab assumes that gas as a share of the U.S. power mix could plunge to 3% by 2050 from 16% in 2010, and coal to 9% from 51%. Wind will climb to 39% from 2%, and solar from 0.01% to 7%. 
Mr. Binz wants to make that happen, and don't worry about the costs of the transition. He said that this "renewable energy future was no more costly, or in the realm of the same cost, as any other clean technology. In other words, if you accept that we're going to have to make these reductions in carbon and in other criteria pollutants, renewables are not going to be more expensive as a total package than other proposals such as nuclear, such as carbon sequestration from coal and natural gas." 
Note those words "we're going to have to make these reductions in carbon." This is a man whose overriding policy motivation is making carbon more expensive so it can be phased out of the U.S. economy. 
In Denver, Mr. Binz also instructed the audience that "We're coming off an election where one of the themes was, we're all in this together. And I think that is the kind of message that needs to be stressed. One utility's exhalation of carbon dioxide is everybody's problem. 
"This is not a situation where it's okay to be with a clean utility and it's okay to let other customers go their own way, because there's a commonality here. I think we need to keep preaching that. We have a bias toward individualism in this country, which can work for great things, but it can also at times prevent us from doing societal things, and there's really no substitute for doing that right now." 
Such thinking ought to scare the daylights out of Senators from fossil-fuel states because it shows how Mr. Binz will operate at FERC. The supposedly independent agency oversees much of the gas business -- from pipelines to export terminals to trading markets. It also has a narrow role to ensure that electricity is affordable and reliable, which Mr. Binz interprets to mean a mandate for whatever his carbon-free paradise requires. 
Senators should also pay attention because Mr. Binz words are a rare public admission of what the green left really thinks about natural gas. Liberals loved gas when it was scarce and expensive. But now that it is abundant and cheap, gas poses a threat to the dream of an economy run solely on mandated renewables. So the strategy is to use regulation to slowly make natural gas more expensive again. 
That will be Mr. Binz's job at FERC. In Denver he mused about the reasons some states use more renewables than others and "the answer I think to my own question is it's policy, it's regulation, it's industry structure and it's incentives we provide for this. It's not physics, it's not chemistry, it's not even the electric grid. It's what we decide we want." 
By "we" he means Mr. Obama and himself. 
(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: The Case for Natural Gas as a Fuel Is a Very Strong One" -- WSJ September 24, 2013) 
(c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Natural gas;  
Nominations;  
Coal;  
Editorials -- Binz, Ron  
People  Obama, Barack; Binz, Ron  
Company / organization  Name: Duke Energy Corp  
NAICS: 221122;  
Name: Federal Energy Regulatory Commission--FERC  
NAICS: 926110, 926130;  
Name: National Renewable Energy Laboratory  
NAICS: 541711  
Title  Target: Natural Gas  
Author  Anonymous  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.12  
Publication year  2013  
Publication date  Sep 14, 2013  
column  REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  1432265911  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1432265911?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-20  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 357 of 376 


Plan to Curb New Coal Plants --- EPA Ready to Require Costly, Novel Equipment to Capture Greenhouse Emissions 
Johnson, Keith; Tracy, Tennille.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]12 Sep 2013: A.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Plan+to+Curb+New+Coal+Plants+--­+EPA+Ready+to+Require+Costly%2C+Novel+Equipment+to+Capture+Greenhouse+Emissions&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2013-09­12&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Johnson%2C+Keith%3BTracy%2C+Tennille&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Tackling greenhouse-gas emissions from power plants is at the heart of the climate plan that Mr. Obama announced in June, but it is politically controversial because coal remains the top fuel for power generation in the U.S. About 39% of electricity in the U.S. came from coal-fired plants in the first half of 2013. 

Full text 
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration plans to block the construction of new coal-fired power plants unless they are built with novel and expensive technology to capture greenhouse-gas emissions, according to people familiar with a draft proposal. 
The administration's rule on emissions from new power plants, a long-awaited measure that is one of the capstones of the administration's climate-change agenda, is set to be formally proposed by the end of next week. While the new rule isn't final yet and is likely to face a legal challenge, it would be another blow to a coal industry already buffeted by a bonanza of cheap natural gas and increasing regulation. 
The Environmental Protection Agency first proposed a stringent standard for coal-fired plants last year, prompting an election-year debate about whether President Barack Obama was waging what Republicans called a "war on coal." Mr. Obama has said he supports clean-coal technology but also sees an urgent need to tackle the release of greenhouse gases blamed for climate change. Power-plant emissions account for about a third of U.S. greenhouse-gas emissions. 
After the resistance last year, many observers had expected the administration to tone down its rule and possibly create a path for new coal plants using existing technology. 
But a person who has seen a recent version of the revised rule said it would propose an emissions limit of 1,100 pounds of carbon dioxide per megawatt hour for coal plants and 1,000 pounds for large gas-fired plants. Last year's version was only slightly different, setting a 1,000-pound limit for both types of plants. The person cautioned that the EPA could still tweak the numbers before it releases them. 
The person and others briefed on the rule said such stringent limits would ban new coal plants, which generally release about twice as much carbon dioxide as the proposed limits. Even the newest, most advanced coal-fired plants in the world would fall far short of that revised standard, they said. 
The only way coal plants could comply is to capture carbon-dioxide emissions and stick them underground -- a costly process that hasn't been demonstrated at commercial scale. 
"This shows the administration discounts and does not appreciate the value of coal and how it can serve the country. You're impairing the backbone of the power grid," said Hal Quinn, chief executive of the National Mining Association, an industry trade group. 
Environmentalists praised the EPA's plan as a way to meet climate-change goals. The Obama administration has set a target of cutting emissions 17% by 2020, compared with 2005 levels. 
Sen. Ed Markey (D., Mass.), a backer of tighter curbs, said: "Natural gas and renewables are showing the cheaper, cleaner way to cut emissions. Coal-mining companies and coal-burning utilities managed to put themselves in this situation, and these new rules might just provide the impetus for them to innovate their way out." 
Tackling greenhouse-gas emissions from power plants is at the heart of the climate plan that Mr. Obama announced in June, but it is politically controversial because coal remains the top fuel for power generation in the U.S. About 39% of electricity in the U.S. came from coal-fired plants in the first half of 2013. 
EPA spokeswoman Alisha Johnson declined to comment on the specific numbers. She said the agency was working on its revised rule "in light of important comments received by the agency and in a way that considers the viewpoints of all stakeholders." She said the agency was on track to complete the rules by the Sept. 20 deadline set by Mr. Obama. 
By effectively banning the construction of new coal plants, the revised rule -- assuming it survives challenges -- will further accelerate the trend toward greater reliance on natural-gas-fired electricity generation. 
The rule is also a crucial stepping-stone for the Obama administration's next big environmental project, emissions standards for the fleet of existing power plants. Mr. Obama has told the EPA to produce those standards by June 2014. 
The coal-mining industry and coal-fired power is already under siege because of a glut of domestically produced natural gas that is cheap and cleaner to burn than coal. While 
U.S. coal exports have risen and hit a record in 2012, thanks in part to European demand, exports still make up a small fraction of U.S. production, and long-term demand overseas is uncertain. That means the domestic power market remains critical for U.S. coal producers. 
Utilities and manufacturers also worry the rules could lead to an electricity supply crunch or rising prices for consumers. 
Opponents of the revised rule have at least two chances to change it. The administration will open the proposal up to a fresh round of public comments before deciding whether to make the standard final, a decision that could come early next year. However, the comments are unlikely to alter the administration's view significantly since it already 
considered the views of industry and environmental groups when shaping the revised rule coming out this month. 
The other chance to overturn the rule would come in the courts, and if the rule is made final next year, a lawsuit would likely follow. 
EPA regulation of greenhouse gases, which is governed by the Clean Air Act, has to be achievable based on technology that has been successfully proven. Power plants with carbon capture and storage -- known as CCS -- have been demonstrated at small scales, but never at full commercial scale in the U.S. 
The EPA believes the technology is proven based on the Kemper plant, a state-of-the-art, coal-fired plant that Southern Co. is building in Mississippi, according to people familiar with the agency's position. 
The Kemper plant will use cutting-edge gasification technology to capture two-thirds of the plant's emissions and make it nearly as clean as a natural-gas plant, but the project has cost more to complete than expected. Furthermore, the Kemper plant benefits from an oil field nearby where it can pump the captured carbon dioxide and store it. It is also optimized to use low-grade, local lignite. 
"It's the perfect storm of non-replicability" for other power plants, said Jeff Holmstead, an EPA official under President George W. Bush who is now a partner at the Bracewell & Giuliani law firm in Washington that has clients who oppose such rules. "If the EPA finalizes a rule like this, there will certainly be legal challenges," he said. 
Big utilities also said it would be unfair to force new coal plants to have the carbon-capture technology. "We firmly believe CCS is not a demonstrated technology that meets the requirements of the Clean Air Act," said Melissa McHenry, a spokeswoman for AEP Inc. 
Credit: By Keith Johnson and Tennille Tracy 

(c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Emissions; Environmental protection; Natural gas; Carbon; Gases; Emission standards; Industrial plant emissions; Electricity distribution; Electricity generation; Coal-fired power plants  
Location  United States--US  
People  Obama, Barack; Markey, Edward J  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 924110;  
Name: NAICS:  National Mining Association 813910  
Classification  9190: United States 4310: Regulation 8340: Electric, water & gas utilities  
Title  Plan to Curb New Coal Plants --- EPA Ready to Require Costly, Novel Equipment to Capture Greenhouse Emissions  
Author  Johnson, Keith; Tracy, Tennille  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.1  

Publication year  2013  
Publication date  Sep 12, 2013  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1431593119  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1431593119?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-20  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 358 of 376 


U.S. News: Greenhouse-Gas Fight Escalates 
Johnson, Keith.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]03 Sep 2013: A.4. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+Greenhouse­Gas+Fight+Escalates&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2013-09­03&volume=&issue=&spage=A.4&au=Johnson%2C+Keith&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Under the George W. Bush administration, a federal appeals court rejected new fuel-economy rules because they didn't put a price on greenhouse-gas emissions and, according to the ruling, understated the potential benefits of regulation. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- A quiet move by the Obama administration to put a higher price tag on greenhouse-gas emissions has sparked a big fight, prompting new legislation in Congress. 
Buried in new energy-efficiency standards the Department of Energy released in May for microwave ovens was an administration estimate that the cost to the country for each ton of carbon dioxide emitted was $36 in 2007 dollars -- up from its 2010 estimate of $21 a ton. 
The number is important because the more costly carbon pollution is deemed to be, the greater the apparent economic benefits of new environmental regulations. The climate plan hinges on such regulations, including restrictions on new power plants that the Environmental Protection Agency is set to release in late September. 
Critics said administration officials calculated the numbers behind closed doors without transparency. "You can't just step in and change the number, especially to that level, without some kind of input," said Rep. James Lankford (R., Okla.), chairman of the House Oversight Subcommittee on Energy Policy. 
Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz said the $36 figure is in line with or lower than estimates used by many corporations and national governments. Exxon Mobil Corp. assumes a carbon price of $80 per ton by 2040 for investment decisions, while BP PLC, another oil giant, assumes a $40 price today, according to the companies. 
Putting a price on carbon emissions assumes that increased levels of carbon dioxide will lead to greater climate change, which in turn is assumed to cause more hurricanes and rising sea levels. Not everyone agrees with those assumptions, which are shared by nearly all climate scientists. Even those who agree that climate change is bad disagree about how much it is worth today to prevent an additional hurricane in, say, 2050. 
The effort to put a price tag on carbon emissions has been years in the making. Under the George W. Bush administration, a federal appeals court rejected new fuel-economy rules because they didn't put a price on greenhouse-gas emissions and, according to the ruling, understated the potential benefits of regulation. 
Early in the Obama administration, officials from nearly a dozen agencies, including the Department of Energy and the EPA, took a first stab, using several computer economic models. The administration said the figure would be continually revised. 
Critics maintain the whole question is too uncertain to be entrusted to computer models. They fear the higher $36-a-ton figure will be used to justify tighter regulation on coal-fired power plants, which could raise consumers' electricity costs. 
Creators of the models concede they aren't perfect. But Yale economics professor William Nordhaus, the creator of the best-known model, said they have improved and can provide a starting point for policy makers. 
Credit: By Keith Johnson 
(c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Emissions; 

Federal legislation; 
Carbon dioxide; 
Environmental regulations; 

Energy policy 


Location 	United States--US 
Company / organization 	Name: Congress 

NAICS: 921120; 

Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 
NAICS:  924110;  
Name:  Department of Energy  
NAICS:  926130  

Classification  9190: United States  
4320: Legislation  
4310: Regulation  
1520: Energy policy  
Title  U.S. News: Greenhouse-Gas Fight Escalates  
Author  Johnson, Keith  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.4  
Publication year  2013  
Publication date  Sep 3, 2013  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1429354508  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1429354508?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-20  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 359 of 376 


The Friends of Ron Binz 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]26 Aug 2013: A.18. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=The+Friends+of+Ron+Binz&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=009996 08-26&volume=&issue=&spage=A.18&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
"Ron Binz's Rules for Radicals" (July 30) questioned his fitness to lead the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, or FERC, whose narrow mandate involves interstate energy transmission and protecting the U.S. electric grid's reliability and affordability. 

Full Text 
These columns recently interrupted the coronation for Ron Binz to become one of President Obama's key energy regulators, and apparently reporting on his record is a violation of Capitol Hill decorum. We're happy to have the story to ourselves because there is so much more that Senators ought to scrutinize before they vote on his nomination this fall. 
"Ron Binz's Rules for Radicals" (July 30) questioned his fitness to lead the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, or FERC, whose narrow mandate involves interstate energy transmission and protecting the U.S. electric grid's reliability and affordability. The White House wants to conscript FERC for the climate wars -- and now environmentalists and crony capitalists are teaming up to install their man inside this supposedly independent body. 
They've found a lot to like in Mr. Binz. His background includes a collusive deal with an electric utility he regulated in Colorado that shut down coal power plants with an upside for the utility. He's mused about the rule of law as a nuisance when regulators want to exercise a "legislative role," while his global warming beliefs are so extreme that he calls even natural gas a "dead end" fuel. 
Our reporting on all of this was too much for a dozen former FERC commissioners, both Democrats and Republicans. In a letter we published -- a version is being circulated in the Senate -- they assert that Mr. Binz fits FERC's "long nonpartisan tradition" and "will be a fair and impartial judge." 
The 12 commissioners offer no evidence for that proposition other than an appeal to their own authority, but that's not their most notable omission. They somehow forgot to mention that, since their FERC tenure, most of them have taken the revolving door to become lobbyists, strategic advisers, utility executives and white-shoe attorneys with business in front of FERC. 
Nora Mead Brownell, for example, bragged to the Politico website that she spearheaded the letter. Readers may recall Ms. Brownell as the George W. Bush appointee who was named to FERC at the suggestion of Enron's Ken Lay. 
After she left FERC in 2006 she founded a consulting firm called ESPY Energy Solutions and also now serves on the boards of directors of business concerns such as the Texas transmission provider Oncor and the smart-grid company Comverge. Transmission line rules are currently, er, a live wire as FERC annexes this state responsibility to socialize the costs of out-of-state wind and solar farms. 
Other signatories include Suedeen Kelly, who is now an Akin Gump partner cochairing that law firm's energy regulatory practice. There's also James Hoecker (Husch Blackwell) and Clifford Naeve (Skadden Arps), and don't forget Joe Kelliher, the executive vice president for federal regulatory affairs at the green energy company NextEra. 
All of this reflects the "long nonpartisan tradition" of monetizing federal political connections. What travels under the euphemism "public service" is often really a form of deferred compensation, and the folks whose livelihoods depend on favorable FERC policy rulings will naturally try to bank goodwill with their new master -- at least until Mr. Binz cashes out his political options too. 
Speaking of which, after Mr. Binz left the Colorado post in 2011, he maintained a paid relationship as a consultant with an outfit called the Energy Foundation. That's not unusual for his line of work, especially from this multimillion-dollar San Francisco consortium of green philanthropists. 
Yet the Energy Foundation has an affiliated political committee called the Green Tech Action Fund, which has taken the very unusual step of hiring an outside public relations firm on behalf of Mr. Binz. We couldn't find anyone who could think of a similar executive branch precedent, at least for an agency as obscure as FERC. Both Mr. Binz and the flacks, VennSquared Communications -- run by Democratic hand Michael Meehan -- deny coordinating with one another. 
Another story in Politico, which has become a community bulletin board for the pro-Binz crowd, suggested the publicist was necessary to fend off scary old us. Thanks for the compliment. But the PR firm hire was made (and reported in the trade press) well before we said a word -- and one might reasonably wonder about the daisy chain between Mr. Binz and his former client, the Energy Foundation. 
The Green Tech Action Fund is one of those 501(c)(4) political arms that don't have to disclose their donors, though it has been linked in media reports to California billionaire Tom Steyer, who is increasingly active in environmental causes. The Center for Responsive Politics ranks the action fund as one of the top 10 U.S. dark-money organizations by spending. 
The larger policy context here is that a core goal of the green movement is to pack FERC with commissioners who will expand and use its powers more assertively in the name of global warming, never mind a lack of legal authority. The Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC) runs something called the Project for Sustainable FERC Energy Policy. Lo and behold, the Energy Foundation contributed more than a half-million dollars to NRDC in 2011 to support such advocacy, according to its most recent grants disclosure form. 
The one thing the former FERC members are right about is that the agency's chairman really is supposed to be "a fair and impartial judge," not a political soldier. Perhaps that helps explain why Mr. Binz and his letter-writing and check-cashing partisans are so defensive. 
(c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Electric utilities; Electricity distribution; Regulatory agencies; Energy policy; Editorials -- Binz, Ron  
Location  California; United States--US; Colorado  
People  Obama, Barack; Lay, Kenneth L; Bush, George W; Binz, Ron; Brownell, Nora M; Kelly, Suedeen; Hoecker, James; Naeve, Clifford; Kelliher, Joseph  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Energy Foundation 541711;  
Name: NAICS:  Green Tech Action Fund 813940;  
Name: NAICS:  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission--FERC 926110, 926130  
Title  The Friends of Ron Binz  
Author  Anonymous  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.18  
Publication year  2013  
Publication date  Aug 26, 2013  
column  REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  1427727594  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1427727594?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  

Last updated 2017-11-20 
Database US Newsstream 
document 360 of 376 


U.S. News: Fight Over Federal Fracking Proposal Flares Up Again 
Johnson, Keith.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]24 Aug 2013: A.4. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+Fight+Over+Federal+Fracking+Proposal+Flares+Up+A 08-24&volume=&issue=&spage=A.4&au=Johnson%2C+Keith&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Mr. Obama, who has said he supports greater production of natural gas along with environmental protections, is navigating between industry groups that oppose any federal regulation of fracking and some environmental groups that want to ban the practice. 

Full Text 
A voluminous file of public comments shows how high the stakes are for President Barack Obama's Interior Department as it prepares to decide the fate of proposed rules for hydraulic fracturing on federal lands. 
Mr. Obama, who has said he supports greater production of natural gas along with environmental protections, is navigating between industry groups that oppose any federal regulation of fracking and some environmental groups that want to ban the practice. 
The Bureau of Land Management, part of the Interior Department, on Friday finished taking public comments on its latest plan for oversight of fracking, the technique of injecting water and chemicals into shale formations to crack open pockets of natural gas and oil. 
The new rules, which would apply only to federal and Indian lands, are meant to update decades-old regulations. They would require disclosures about chemicals used in fracking and set standards for wells and disposal of wastewater. The BLM said it didn't have a target date for finishing the rule. 
While the vast majority of shale-gas production takes place on private land, the proposed rules are a hot-button political topic. Antifracking protesters, including some with signs reading "No fracking way," greeted Mr. Obama on a visit to Binghamton, N.Y., on Friday. 
Environmental groups worry that poorly regulated fracking could imperil groundwater, increase greenhouse-gas emissions and perpetuate U.S. reliance on fossil fuels. The groups said more than one million people filed comments calling for a ban on fracking on federal lands. 
Industry groups, while welcoming several revisions to the rules since they were first proposed in 2012, say federal regulation is still unnecessary and costly. They say that there is no evidence of groundwater pollution, and that the rules could damp the drilling boom that has made the U.S. the world's largest producer of natural gas. 
Fracking regulation was an issue in last year's presidential campaign, with Republican Mitt Romney accusing Mr. Obama of wanting "federal bureaucrats" to control fracking, not the states. 
Mr. Obama has increasingly embraced natural gas as a motor of economic development. The gas boom has created jobs in an otherwise weak labor market and rejuvenated domestic manufacturing with the aid of cheap energy. At the same time, the use of natural gas in place of coal has helped the power industry cut its emissions of greenhouse gases, which most climate scientists say are the major contributor to climate change. 
"Cheaper costs of natural gas [are] a huge boost to our businesses here in America, so we should develop it even more," Mr. Obama said in a July speech in Chattanooga, Tenn. "We've got to do it in a way that protects our air and our water for our children and future generations." 
Industry groups said existing state-level regulations were adequate oversight for the industry. The American Petroleum Institute, citing a study that it commissioned, said the proposed rules would cost the industry between $30 million and $2.7 billion a year, more than the BLM's own assessment that compliance would cost between $12 million and $20 million a year. In addition, the BLM couldn't quantify benefits from the proposed rule. 
"There is still no clear benefit to imposing additional federal rules on top of state environmental stewardship," said Erik Milito of the petroleum institute. 
Environmental opponents said expanded fracking could lead to greater releases of methane, which is a much more powerful greenhouse gas than carbon dioxide. Methane is the primary component of natural gas. 
"It's time for [Mr. Obama] to represent those who elected him, not big oil and gas," said David Braun of United for Action, a group opposed to fracking. "While it's admirable that the president wants to tackle climate change, fracking has no place in any plan to combat it." 
Colleen McCain Nelson contributed to this article. 
Credit: By Keith Johnson 
(c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Natural gas industry; Environmental protection; Federal regulation; Political campaigns; Proposals; Environmental stewardship; Hydraulic fracturing  
Location  United States--US  
People  Obama, Barack  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  Department of the Interior 924120;  
Name: NAICS:  Bureau of Land Management 924120  
Classification  9190: United States 8510: Petroleum industry 1210: Politics & political behavior 4310: Regulation 1510: Energy resources 1540: Pollution control  
Title  U.S. News: Fight Over Federal Fracking Proposal Flares Up Again  
Author  Johnson, Keith  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.4  
Publication year  2013  
Publication date  Aug 24, 2013  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1427422214  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1427422214?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-20  
Database  US Newsstream  


document 361 of 376 


Ron Binz's Rules for Radicals 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]30 July 2013: A.14. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Ron+Binz%27s+Rules+for+Radicals&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn 07-30&volume=&issue=&spage=A.14&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Take the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, or FERC, which oversees electric transmission and interstate pipelines. 

Full Text 
President Obama's rule-makers have amped up major regulators like the Environmental Protection Agency and now they're turning to more obscure outposts. Take the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, or FERC, which oversees electric transmission and interstate pipelines. Or used to. 
Now FERC has deputized itself as a Wall Street regulator. This month the commission squeezed Barclays for $435 million for alleged energy-market manipulation, the largest penalty in FERC's history and more than all of its previous fines combined. Another $410 million fine will soon hit J.P. Morgan, according to a Journal scoop. 
Yet that will seem minor if the next FERC chairman is Ron Binz -- the most important and radical Obama nominee you've never heard of. An electric regulator in Colorado from 2007 to 2011, Mr. Binz is the latest Presidential nominee who doesn't understand the difference between making laws and enforcing them. 
No, that's unfair. Mr. Binz doesn't care about the difference. In a recent interview with the Association for the Demand Response and Smart Grid trade group, reflecting on the lessons of his Colorado job, he nodded at the "judicial role" of regulators. But then he mused about their "legislative role" too: "I saw the commission not simply as an umpire calling balls and strikes, but also as a leader on policy implementation." 
This philosophy is especially troubling for a commission like FERC, which is supposed to be an even-handed arbitrator independent of the executive branch. FERC's narrow legal obligations include protecting the affordability and reliability of the U.S. power supply and electric grid -- goals that are in more than a little tension with Mr. Obama's anticarbon program. The law is a nuisance when you think you're saving the planet. 
Mr. Binz was supposed to fill a similarly neutral role in Colorado when then Democratic Governor Bill Ritter appointed him chairman of the public utility commission. Prior to his tenure, that job consisted of consumer protection and ensuring that electricity was low-cost. But Mr. Ritter wanted to do something about climate change, and Mr. Binz told the Denver Post in 2007 (using the third person) that "There's an expectation that the chair will carry a banner for the new administration." 
Mr. Binz became the point man for legislation that would all but force several Denver-area coal plants to convert to natural gas though they weren't slated for retirement. He even negotiated terms directly with the Colorado power company that it was his responsibility to regulate, Xcel Energy. 
Mr. Binz assured Xcel that it could pass on to rate payers, with a guaranteed return, whatever capital investment was necessary to replace the working coal assets. Documents obtained by the Colorado Mining Association under a state open records law show that Mr. Binz promised "extraordinary cost recovery." In a March 2010 email, he wrote that "I think it's more nearly a self-fulfilling prophecy -- the larger (and faster) the cost burden in the Company's approved plan, the stronger the basis for the Commission to adopt extraordinary regulatory measures to assure the Company's financial health." 
In other words, the more Xcel spent in the name of the Ritter-Binz political agenda, the more Mr. Binz would use the discretion he gave himself in the law he wrote to give Xcel favorable treatment. When Stockholm syndrome set in with Xcel and the company took the deal, Mr. Binz exulted that "the eagle has landed." It was great for everyone except the consumers involuntarily funding it. 
Mr. Binz would almost certainly commander the same extralegal powers at FERC to perpetrate similar abuses, regardless of congressional intent. "Regulation needs to shift from its backward-looking focus on costs, to a forward-looking emphasis on value and desired societal outcomes," he says. In a 2012 report for the consultant Ceres subtitled "What Every State Regulator Needs to Know," Mr. Binz added that "Both regulators and utilities need to evolve beyond historical practice," and he encouraged utility commissioners to expand their mandates to include his subjective conception of the "broad societal benefits" of low- or no-carbon power. 
FERC was a sleepy regulator until the Obama Presidency, but it has statutory powers that could be turned into anticarbon weapons, such as the authority to impose fines of up $1 million per day for what it claims are violations. They also include the power to block energy mergers and the construction of terminals, pipelines and transmission. 
You can bet that Mr. Binz will be creative and political, and don't be so sure his only target is coal. At an Edison Foundation panel this March, he called natural gas a "dead end" technology because "on the carbon basis, you hit the wall in 2035 or so." He added that "We have to do better on carbon than even natural gas will allow us to do." This is unusual in that the greens usually pretend to support gas to make outlawing coal seem more reasonable. Mr. Binz let the mask slip. 
Mr. Binz is part of the White House's damn-the-voters strategy of imposing through regulation what Congress won't pass, and now he wants to glide into FERC without protest. But the Senate's advice-and-consent role is especially important because a FERC chairman has broad powers, much like a CEO's, even if other commissioners dissent -- and the chairman is not supposed to carry Mr. Obama's banner. Mr. Binz's record and methods deserve far more scrutiny than they have received. 
(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: Ron Binz Was Wise and Efficient in Serving Colorado" -- WSJ Aug. 9, 2013) 
(c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject  Electric utilities; Cost recovery; Nominations; Public utilities; Editorials -- Binz, Ron  
Location  Colorado  
People  Binz, Ron  
Company / organization  Name: NAICS:  JPMorgan Chase & Co 522110, 522292, 523110;  
Name: NAICS:  Xcel Energy Inc 551112, 221122, 221210;  
Name: NAICS:  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission--FERC 926110, 926130;  
Name: NAICS:  Colorado Mining Association 813910;  
Name: NAICS:  Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 924110  
Classification  1210: Politics & political behavior 9190: United States  
Title  Ron Binz's Rules for Radicals  
Author  Anonymous  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.14  
Publication year  2013  
Publication date  Jul 30, 2013  
column  REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  1413404934  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1413404934?accountid=14902  

Copyright  (c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-20  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 362 of 376 


Corporate News: Critics Warn of Environmental Hazards of Extracting Methane Hydrate 
Lefebvre, Ben.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]29 July 2013: B.4. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Corporate+News%3A+Critics+Warn+of+Environmental+Hazards+of+Ex 07-29&volume=&issue=&spage=B.4&au=Lefebvre%2C+Ben&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Natural gas is being touted as a bridge fuel to replace oil and coal while strides are made in wind and solar energy, but backers of switching to renewable resources say successful development of methane hydrate could prolong dependence on carbon-based fuels. 

Full Text 
Tapping methane hydrate for natural gas might have a positive impact on global energy production, but critics say the potential fuel source could have a negative impact on global warming. 
The trillions of cubic feet of methane hydrates contained in the ocean's floor are in geologically unstable areas. The fear: One wrong move and an undersea landslide in the muddy sediment containing the methane hydrates could send massive amounts of a particularly potent greenhouse gas to the ocean's surface and into the atmosphere. 
"Adding more methane to the atmosphere is a really bad idea," said Kert Davies, research director at Greenpeace, which is known for its use of direct action as well as lobbying and research to sway public opinion on issues including global warming and commercial whaling. 
Although methane remains in the atmosphere for a shorter time than carbon dioxide, "pound for pound, the comparative impact of methane on climate change is over 20 times greater than carbon dioxide over a 100-year period," according to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. 
Japan, the country making the most aggressive push into methane-hydrate development, will concentrate its efforts on relatively flat stretches of the seafloor off its coast. That will minimize the chances of a landslide, according to the Research Consortium for Methane Hydrate Resources in Japan, a group with representatives from government agencies, universities and businesses. 
Natural gas is being touted as a bridge fuel to replace oil and coal while strides are made in wind and solar energy, but backers of switching to renewable resources say successful development of methane hydrate could prolong dependence on carbon-based fuels. 
"Hydrates, when and if they ever turn out to be commercially extractable, will be just one more excuse to fiddle while Rome burns," said Richard Charter, senior researcher at the Ocean Foundation, a conservation group. 
(See related article: "Fracking Dreams of a New Ice Age" -- WSJ July 29, 2013) 
Credit: By Ben Lefebvre 
(c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Natural gas; 
Global warming; 
Deepwater exploration & production; 
Methane; 

Environmental impact 


Location 	Japan 
Company / organization 	Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA 

NAICS: 924110 


Classification  8510: Petroleum industry 1540: Pollution control 9180: International  
Title  Corporate News: Critics Warn of Environmental Hazards of Extracting Methane Hydrate  

Author  Lefebvre, Ben  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.4  
Publication year  2013  
Publication date  Jul 29, 2013  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1413145392  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1413145392?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-20  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 363 of 376 


U.S. News: U.S. Sees Boom in Global Energy Use 
Ryan, Tracy.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]26 July 2013: A.2. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+U.S.+Sees+Boom+in+Global+Energy+Use&title=Wall+ 07-26&volume=&issue=&spage=A.2&au=Ryan%2C+Tracy&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Half of that growth would come from China and India, the report says, outlining a scenario where global economic growth will lift demand for renewable energy like electricity from solar power, but also one where fossil fuels like oil, coal and natural gas remain the world's go-to energy sources. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- The world will use far more of every type of energy in coming decades, the U.S. Energy Department said Thursday in a report that predicts China and India will drive growing consumption. 
The department's statistical arm, the Energy Information Administration, estimated world-wide use of energy -- mostly for transportation and electricity -- will surge 56% by 2040, compared with 2010 levels. 
Half of that growth would come from China and India, the report says, outlining a scenario where global economic growth will lift demand for renewable energy like electricity from solar power, but also one where fossil fuels like oil, coal and natural gas remain the world's go-to energy sources. 
Based on current government policies and a model that assumed continued growth in the world economy, the report found that fossil fuels like oil, coal and natural gas will provide most of the energy for that growth. Those fuels will account for 80% of world energy use through 2040, the report projects. 
Consumption of natural gas is expected to grow faster than that of oil or coal, with the industrial and electric power sectors leading a shift toward burning more gas, which is being unlocked across the globe thanks to new extraction technologies. 
At the same time, the report predicts that renewable energy will be the fastest-growing source of the world's electricity generation, driven by a huge increase in capacity of hydroelectric dams and wind farms. 
Fadel Gheit, an energy analyst for Oppenheimer & Co., cautioned that "projections are suicidal," particularly in the energy sector, where technological advances have upended predictions. "Nobody had predicted five years ago that the U.S. would be self-sufficient in natural gas," Mr. Gheit said. "Now we have gas that we don't know what to do with." 
Burning more fossil fuels will increase the amount of carbon dioxide produced world-wide: The report projects that emissions of carbon dioxide, the most common greenhouse gas that scientists have linked to climate change, will increase 46% by 2040. 
Andrew Steer, president of the World Resources Institute, a think tank that focuses on climate policy, said that result "would be an exceedingly bad outcome for the environmental health of the world," but it would also mean "we're not using resources more efficiently, so we're not benefiting economically from the huge gains that all analysis demonstrates that energy efficiency [provides]." 
Tennille Tracy contributed to this article. 
Credit: By Ryan Tracy 
(c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Natural gas; 
Fossil fuels; 
Alternative energy; 

Energy policy; 
Energy consumption 


Location 	India; China; United States--US 
Company / organization 	Name: World Resources Institute 

NAICS: 813910; 

Name: Department of Energy NAICS: 926130 
Classification  9180: International  
1510: Energy resources  
1520: Energy policy  
Title  U.S. News: U.S. Sees Boom in Global Energy Use  
Author  Ryan, Tracy  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.2  
Publication year  2013  
Publication date  Jul 26, 2013  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1412447017  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1412447017?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-20  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 364 of 376 


The Business: So What's the Matter With Shale Gas, Anyway? 
Bussy, John.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]19 July 2013: B.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=The+Business%3A+So+What%27s+the+Matter+With+Shale+Gas% 07-19&volume=&issue=&spage=B.1&au=Bussy%2C+John&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Environmental groups now worry that gas is moving in to stay, taking the momentum out of the shift to nonpolluting renewables, slowing conservation, and creating new environmental problems. (The Environmental Protection Agency, however, recently found that industry pollution controls have reduced production-related gas leaks by 20% from previous estimates, even though more gas is being drilled.) Meanwhile, the cost of energy produced from renewables is falling. 

Full Text 
Sometimes it seems as if the environmental movement has been left behind by the sheer speed of America's shale energy revolution. That may be because a resource -- natural 

gas -- that environmental groups once saw as part of the solution has become part of the problem, at least as they see it. 
Shale gas and oil are widely viewed as one of the biggest forces to hit the U.S. economy in modern history. Total U.S. gas production has rocketed 33% since 2008 and oil 46%, 
driving down energy costs. The expanding shale industry supported 1.7 million jobs in 2012 and produced $62 billion in state and federal tax revenue, according to IHS/CERA, 
the energy consultancy. 

"The new narrative about shale gas is about jobs, economic growth, global competitiveness, and a U.S. manufacturing renaissance," says Dan Yergin, the energy expert and 
author of "The Quest." 
The public gets the narrative. A Pew Research poll found 48% of the respondents favor increased use of hydraulic fracking of shale; 38% are opposed. 

Where does this leave the environmental movement? Trying to change the conversation about shale gas. 
For years, environmental groups saw gas as something of an ally in the cause. Gas has half the carbon footprint of coal. It was the ideal substitute for coal and a "bridge" to 
greater use of renewable energy such as wind and solar. 

But as shale gas production soared, the price of natural gas plummeted. Environmental groups now worry that gas is moving in to stay, taking the momentum out of the shift to 
nonpolluting renewables, slowing conservation, and creating new environmental problems. 

"To the extent that we're locking in new gas power plants, it's not the best way to build a cleaner society," says Fred Krupp, president of the Environmental Defense Fund. 
"The pace of development caught everyone by surprise, and environmental groups and our laws and regulators are playing catch-up," says Dan Lashof of the Natural Resources 
Defense Council. "In a lot of cases, the gas industry has run roughshod over local communities." 

Gas, adds Michael Brune, head of the Sierra Club, "should be used as little as possible for as short a time as possible." Renewables are the answer. 

The broader environmental argument now goes like this: There's an under-appreciation of how much methane leaks into the atmosphere when natural gas is fracked, piped and 
stored. 
Methane, the chief component of natural gas, is many times more damaging to the environment than carbon. Sloppy production can erase the advantage gas has over coal. 

(The Environmental Protection Agency, however, recently found that industry pollution controls have reduced production-related gas leaks by 20% from previous estimates, 

even though more gas is being drilled.) 
Meanwhile, the cost of energy produced from renewables is falling. States such as California and Colorado are expanding their targets for energy generated by renewable 
sources, and policy makers should do more to encourage this trend nationally, environmental groups say. Communities, they add, are increasingly bristling over pollution at 
drilling sites and the chemicals pumped underground to extract the gas. 

And there's the matter of climate change. Global limits on emissions, environmentalists contend, will inevitably crimp use of fossil fuels. Best to constrain the expanding use of 
gas now. 

"The fundamentals of the industry are bad," says the Sierra Club's Mr. Brune. "You have a resource that's becoming less competitive and more controversial over time." 
That said, "The reality now is that, for better or worse, gas is here," says Mr. Krupp of the EDF. "It's hard to imagine that Texas, Oklahoma, or Pennsylvania is going to stop 
pumping gas." 

So his organization has joined with Chevron, Shell, Consol Energy, and other environmental groups to construct voluntary best practices for shale development. 
"There is a big opportunity now for more of the companies to step up and lead," he says. 
Narratives do change. It may not be wishful thinking for environmental groups to contend that a comprehensive shift to renewable energy is not only necessary but inevitable. 
But for the moment at least, it's also tough to argue with the transformative power of price. Dow Chemical and other big manufacturers are adding to operations in the U.S. to 

take advantage of the new low cost of gas energy. 

That trend is speeding up, not slowing. Credit: By John Bussy 
(c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Petroleum production;  
Oil shale  
Location  United States--US  
Classification  9190: United States  
8510: Petroleum industry  
Title  The Business: So What's the Matter With Shale Gas, Anyway?  
Author  Bussy, John  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.1  
Publication year  2013  
Publication date  Jul 19, 2013  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1401017368  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1401017368?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-20  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 365 of 376 


Can Environmentalists Think? 
Stephens, Bret.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]09 July 2013: A.11. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Can+Environmentalists+Think%3F&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn= 07-09&volume=&issue=&spage=A.11&au=Stephens%2C+Bret&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
[...]all Americans are convinced that the threat of climate change is real, but President Obama had to use executive fiat to impose regulations on the coal industry that Congress would have rejected out of hand. "Nature is far more imaginative than we are," Stamatios Krimigis, the eminent Johns Hopkins physicist, said last month when readings from the Voyager spacecraft failed to match expectations for what it would find at the far edge of the solar system. 

Full Text 
As environmental disasters go, the explosion Saturday of a runaway train that destroyed much of the Quebec town of Lac-Megantic, about 20 miles from the Maine border, will probably go down the memory hole. 
It lacks the correct moral and contains an inconvenient truth. 
Not that the disaster lacks the usual ingredients of such a moral. The derailed 72-car train belonged to a subsidiary of Illinois-based multinational Rail World, whose self-declared aim is to "promote rail industry privatization." The train was carrying North Dakota shale oil (likely extracted by fracking) to the massive Irving Oil refinery in the port city of Saint John, to be shipped to the global market. At least five people were killed in the blast (a number that's likely to rise) and 1,000 people were forced to evacuate. Quebec's environment minister reports that some 100,000 liters (26,000 gallons) of crude has spilled into the Chaudiere River, meaning it could reach Quebec City and the St. Lawrence River before too long. 
Environmentalists should be howling. But this brings us to the inconvenient truth. 
The reason oil is moved on trains from places like North Dakota and Alberta is because there aren't enough pipelines to carry it. The provincial governments of Alberta and New Brunswick are talking about building a pipeline to cover the 3,000-odd mile distance. But last month President Obama put the future of the Keystone XL pipeline again in doubt, telling a Georgetown University audience "our national interest will be served only if this project does not significantly exacerbate the problem of carbon pollution." 
Did the explosion at Lac-Megantic not significantly exacerbate the problem of pollution, carbon or otherwise? Why do environmentalists routinely frame political choices in the language of moral absolutes -- save/destroy the planet; "don't be mean, go green," and so on -- rather than as complex questions involving trade-offs that are best dealt with pragmatically? 
When it comes to the question of how best to transport oil, environmentalists tend to act like rabbis being asked for advice on how best to roast a pig: The thing should not be done in the first place. So opposition to Keystone XL becomes an assertion of virtue, indifferent to such lesser considerations as efficiency (or succulence). 
But the pig will be roasted. The oil will be pumped. What happens then? 
Like water, business has a way of tracing a course of least resistance. Pipelines are a hyper-regulated industry but rail transport isn't, so that's how we now move oil. As the Wall Street Journal's Tom Fowler reported in March, in 2008 the U.S. rail system moved 9,500 carloads of oil. In 2012, the figure surged to 233,811. During the same period, the total number of spills went from eight to 69. In March, a derailed train spilled 714 barrels of oil in western Minnesota. 
Predictable, you would think. And ameliorable: Pipelines account for about half as much spillage as railways on a gallon-per-mile basis. Pipelines also tend not to go straight through exposed population centers like Lac-Megantic. Nobody suggests that pipelines are perfectly reliable or safe, but what is? To think is to weigh alternatives. The habit of too many environmentalists is to evade them. 
Perhaps this explains why the environmental movement has excelled ideologically and failed politically. As in fashion, green is a nice color that rarely wears well. So the whole world (minus your correspondent) agrees that climate change is an urgent threat to life as we know it, yet every U.N. megasummit to save the planet ends on a whimpering note. So all Americans are convinced that the threat of climate change is real, but President Obama had to use executive fiat to impose regulations on the coal industry that Congress would have rejected out of hand. 
Perhaps this is also the reason climate science is so prone to scientific embarrassment. In 2001, the U.N.'s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change insisted that "global average surface temperatures [will rise] at rates very likely without precedent during the last 10,000 years," and that they would rise sharply and continuously. 
Yet in the 15 years since 1998, surface air temperatures have held flat, a fact now grudgingly conceded by the climate-science establishment, despite more than 100 billion tons of carbon dioxide having been pumped into the atmosphere over the same period. "Nature is far more imaginative than we are," Stamatios Krimigis, the eminent Johns Hopkins physicist, said last month when readings from the Voyager spacecraft failed to match expectations for what it would find at the far edge of the solar system. That kind of humility in the face of data is tough for today's environmentalists, who have staked so much on their own models, predictions and certitudes. 
It's a pity. The world needs a credible environmental movement. Conservation matters. So does the quality of water and air. In China and Russia today environmentalists have mounted the most effective (and often the most courageous) critique of the toxic combination of coercive states and corrupt businesses. In the developed world, urban life has been massively improved thanks to a keener environmental awareness. 
But all that depends on an environmental movement that isn't just another fire-and-brimstone religion, that wants to be part of a solution without castigating everyone else as part of the problem. In other words, a movement that is capable of reasoned thought. 
The first application for a Keystone XL pipeline permit was filed with the U.S. State Department in 2008. Since then, the amount of oil being shipped on rails has risen 24-fold. 
Environmentalists enraged by this column should look at the photo of Lac-Megantic that goes with it, and think it over. 
(See accompanying photo -- WSJ July 9, 2013) 
Credit: By Bret Stephens 

(c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Environmental protection;  
Petroleum industry;  
Railroad accidents & safety;  
Pipelines  
Location  Quebec City Quebec Canada; Canada  
Company / organization  Name: TransCanada Keystone Pipeline GP Ltd  
NAICS: 486110  
Classification  9172: Canada  
8350: Transportation & travel industry  
8510: Petroleum industry  
Title  Can Environmentalists Think?  
Author  Stephens, Bret  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.11  
Publication year  2013  
Publication date  Jul 9, 2013  
column  Global View  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Commentary  
ProQuest document ID  1398616825  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1398616825?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  

Last updated 2017-11-20 
Database US Newsstream 
document 366 of 376 


Clean Coal: Energy's Odd Man Out? --- U.S. Support for Pollution-Cutting Technologies Isn't Likely to Tip Competitive Balance in the Fuel's Favor 
Smith, Rebecca; Sweet, Cassandra.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]03 July 2013: B.8. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Clean+Coal%3A+Energy%27s+Odd+Man+Out%3F+--­+U.S.+Support+for+Pollution­Cutting+Technologies+Isn%27t+Likely+to+Tip+Competitive+Balance+in+the+Fuel%27s+Favor&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2013-07­03&volume=&issue=&spage=B.8&au=Smith%2C+Rebecca%3BSweet%2C+Cassandra&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Duke Energy Corp.'s Edwardsport power plant in Indiana, which started commercial operation this month, turns coal into a cleaner-burning gas but doesn't filter out the carbon dioxide produced through gasification. AEP intends to shut down about a quarter of its coal plants in the next few years, and is relying instead on cleaner-burning natural gas, renewable resources and energy-efficiency measures. 

Full Text 
Some clean-energy technologies are expected to get a shot in the arm from President Barack Obama's plan to fight climate change, but so-called clean coal probably isn't one of them. The reason: economics. 
As part of the plan he unveiled last week, Mr. Obama directed the Environmental Protection Agency to set the nation's first limits on greenhouse-gas emissions from U.S. power plants, boosting the prospects for natural gas and renewable energy. He also called for $8 billion in federal loan guarantees to support "advanced fossil energy" projects, including clean-coal power plants and energy-efficiency efforts. 
But experts say clean coal -- a mix of technologies championed by lawmakers, unions and others seeking to preserve jobs in the nation's coal belt -- remains far too costly to make new coal plants competitive with natural gas, which is both cheaper and cleaner. 
"We're quite challenged -- I don't know how else to put it," says Thomas Alley, vice president of generation for the Electric Power Research Institute in Palo Alto, Calif., an industry-funded research group. Clean coal is "just not an economical option for folks, at this point in time," he says. 
Two big new power plants meant to showcase new technology are each a billion dollars over budget, and neither is fully operational. That's partly because no one has developed an inexpensive way to get carbon dioxide, the most common greenhouse gas, out of the waste stream produced by burning coal. Some of the most promising ways to clean up the fuel remain far from commercialization, researchers and others say. 
The stakes are high for the coal industry. Electrical power plants produced about a third of U.S. greenhouse-gas emissions in 2011, the EPA says, and 80% of those emissions came from burning coal. Partly as a result, power producers have embraced alternatives, principally natural gas, which produces about half as much carbon dioxide. 
Clean-coal developers have attacked the problem from two directions: by gasifying coal, which removes pollutants before they are burned, and by trying to tease pollutants out of the waste stream after combustion. They are testing many materials for their ability to attract and bind carbon dioxide, including chilled ammonia, solvents and enzymes. 
Duke Energy Corp.'s Edwardsport power plant in Indiana, which started commercial operation this month, turns coal into a cleaner-burning gas but doesn't filter out the carbon dioxide produced through gasification. Equipment to capture the carbon would have added hundreds of millions of dollars to the cost of the plant, which is already $3.5 billion. 
The company may decide to add the carbon-capture equipment later, says Doug Esamann, president of Duke Energy Indiana. "We left space for it." 
The plant is shut down right now, he adds, while engineers work out some unexpected bugs; output isn't expected to reach full capacity for at least a year. 
Southern Co.'s Kemper project in Mississippi, which is under construction, also is designed to gasify coal. Southern intends to capture 65% of the carbon dioxide for use in oil fields near the Gulf of Mexico. Buyers of the gas plan to inject it into wells to force up more oil. 
But the project is way over budget, at $4.3 billion and counting. A Southern spokeswoman says that while the Kemper plant will be costly, it should produce low-cost electricity. 
Other utilities are unlikely to follow suit, however, even if the U.S. does curb carbon-dioxide emissions, "given the enormous cost overruns both companies have incurred on their already very costly projects," says Hugh Wynne, utilities analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein. He says that power plants fired by natural gas, which isn't only cheap but far cleaner to burn than coal, "are the obvious way to go to reduce CO2 emissions." 
Some utilities have toyed with carbon capture and storage and given up. American Electric Power Co. experimented with a technique to extract a small amount of carbon dioxide from emissions at its giant coal-fired Mountaineer plant in West Virginia. But the company abandoned the effort in 2010 after state regulators rejected its request to charge customers for the additional cost. 
For clean coal to make headway, the power industry needs "a clear indication from someone that we have to build this stuff, and the technology needs to be there," says AEP Chief Executive Nick Akins. 
AEP intends to shut down about a quarter of its coal plants in the next few years, and is relying instead on cleaner-burning natural gas, renewable resources and energy-efficiency measures. Already, it is lowering emissions, the company says. 
Despite the many challenges, researchers are working on processes they hope will revolutionize the power sector one day. "It's a $10 billion opportunity," says Barry Blackwell, chief executive of Akermin, a scientific-development company in St. Louis. Akermin is working on carbon-capture technology that has been tested at the National Carbon 
Capture Center in Wilsonville, Ala., a test center supported by the Department of Energy. 
So far results have been good, Mr. Blackwell says. Closely held Akermin hopes to have a product available for the power-generation industry in four or five years, he says, adding: "We're focused on reducing the cost." 
Utilities are watching, but they aren't waiting for breakthroughs. The Tennessee Valley Authority is shutting down coal plants and adding gas units and a nuclear reactor. Bob Dalrymple, the TVA's senior vice president of coal-and-gas operations, says that even if a coal-cleaning process was perfected, "we'd still have to do an economic evaluation" before using it. 
Credit: By Rebecca Smith and Cassandra Sweet 
(c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Emissions control; 
Guaranteed loans; 
Alternative energy; 

Energy policy 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Obama, Barack 
Classification 	9190: United States 

1520: Energy policy 


Title 	Clean Coal: Energy's Odd Man Out? --- U.S. Support for Pollution-Cutting Technologies Isn't 
Likely to Tip Competitive Balance in the Fuel's Favor 

Author 	Smith, Rebecca; Sweet, Cassandra 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	B.8 
Publication year 	2013 
Publication date 	Jul 3, 2013 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 	00999660 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	News 
ProQuest document ID 	1373400053 
Document URL 	https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1373400053?accountid=14902 
Copyright 	(c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further 
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Last updated 	2017-11-20 
Database US Newsstream 
document 367 of 376 


U.S. to Back Technology On Emissions 
Ryan, Tracy.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]03 July 2013: B.8. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+to+Back+Technology+On+Emissions&title=Wall+Street+Journal&i 07-03&volume=&issue=&spage=B.8&au=Ryan%2C+Tracy&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Mr. Moniz said the department is "looking for new ideas" and plans to solicit loan-guarantee applications for a number of technologies, including technology that captures methane emissions from natural-gas wells or burns fossil fuel more efficiently to cut back on emissions of carbon dioxide. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz said Tuesday that the administration will move "as rapidly as we can" to support pollution-cutting fossil-fuel technology, renewing an effort that has languished since Congress authorized it in 2005. 
Mr. Moniz said he planned to tap into a loan-guarantee program that has so far backed mostly large solar-power plants, this time to backstop up to $8 billion in loans for projects in the coal, natural-gas or oil sectors. He offered new details on the loan guarantee initiative, which President Barack Obama unveiled last week as part of his plan for addressing climate change. 
Mr. Obama also affirmed his intent to limit greenhouse-gas emissions from the nation's coal-fired power plants, a task that will be hard without advances in capturing those emissions. 
Mr. Moniz said the department is "looking for new ideas" and plans to solicit loan-guarantee applications for a number of technologies, including technology that captures methane emissions from natural-gas wells or burns fossil fuel more efficiently to cut back on emissions of carbon dioxide. 
The department also said it is interested in plans to capture and store carbon dioxide from coal-burning power plants. It said it hopes to start taking loan-guarantee applications this fall. 
Mr. Moniz pushed back against criticism that the administration is working to outlaw coal-fired plants. "I think the issue is to prepare for the future, a future in which coal is in fact part of the mix," he said in a conference call with reporters. "In this context it means one way or another reducing [carbon-dioxide] emissions." 
The Energy Department has previously committed $1 billion to backing the FutureGen carbon-capture project in Illinois. Construction is slated to begin next summer. The project's backers are confident they will secure the additional funding needed to build the facility, a FutureGen spokesman said Tuesday. 
Credit: By Ryan Tracy 
(c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Guaranteed loans; 
Coal-fired power plants; 
Emissions control; 
Pollution control 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Moniz, Ernest J 
Classification 	9190: United States 

1520: Energy policy 


Title 	U.S. to Back Technology On Emissions 
Author 	Ryan, Tracy 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	B.8 
Publication year  2013  
Publication date  Jul 3, 2013  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1373397068  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1373397068?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-20  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 368 of 376 


Obama's Carbon Policy Is Folly and Misprioritization 

Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]01 July 2013: A.14. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Obama%27s+Carbon+Policy+Is+Folly+and+Misprioritization&title=Wall 07-01&volume=&issue=&spage=A.14&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Stripping us of coal plants not only strikes a blow at the pursuit of U.S. energy independence, but it's a gut punch to families and the three-fourths of Americans living paycheck to paycheck and those in cold-weather states who already struggle with the burdensome costs of heating their homes. 

Full Text 
Your editorial "The Carbonated President" (June 26) nails the important issues of excessive power from an unaccountable president and bureaucracy and the consequences that follow. 
Presidents should not merely establish and implement an agenda but must prioritize the problems they address and recognize that often a good program must await a better time, even beyond their presidency, to be implemented. The enormous negative impact of President Obama's carbon strategy on our economy, even if it is a great idea, should wait for a stronger economy and broader consensus. 
This is all about building his legacy as the president, even though his speech implied the opposite when he said the founders "charged us to make decisions with an eye on a longer horizon than the arc of our own political careers." He would do well to think less of his own political career and more about the most pressing issues of jobs and the economy. 
Gordon A. Schaller 
Irvine, Calif. 
Stripping us of coal plants not only strikes a blow at the pursuit of U.S. energy independence, but it's a gut punch to families and the three-fourths of Americans living paycheck to paycheck and those in cold-weather states who already struggle with the burdensome costs of heating their homes. 
I guess we'll just have to throw another log on the fire to stay warm this winter and enjoy our fireplaces while we still have them, until they are banned by President Obama's EPA. 
Sharon DeMers 
Ankeny, Iowa 
President Obama has the view that we cannot fail future generations by allowing global warming. But then he is perfectly content saddling future generations with unsustainable debt and an economy incapable of competing internationally due to high costs. High costs refer to high taxes, expensive energy, big social programs, ObamaCare and crushing interest rates after the world figures out our debt is junk. The administration isn't waging a war on coal. It's waging a war against the future of the U.S. 
Guy Randolph 
Savannah, Ga. 
The president's attack on carbon fuels appeals to the real Luddites of our time who totally ignore the economic and human benefits that were unleashed in Oil City, Pa, in the 1850s and Spindletop at the turn of the 20th century. The president eagerly hops on Air Force One for a golf match or a fundraiser, yet by policy wants those who provide energy and pay taxes, and who actually produce the power to fuel the toys he and his elite friends enjoy, tossed to the unemployment line. 
Larry Stewart 
Vienna, Va. 
Congress never passed a law that said that carbon dioxide is a pollutant. Carbon dioxide is a gas exhaled by all mammals, including humans, and is required by all green plants. Carbon dioxide is present in all air that is considered clean and fresh. The only justification President Obama has to regulate CO2 is his administration's abusive interpretation of the Clean Air Act. To stop this abuse, Congress need only pass a one-page law that states that carbon dioxide isn't to be considered a pollutant under any U.S. law or statute. 
Don Cohen Huntington Beach, Calif. 
We know that as long as emerging nations build coal plants faster than we can close them, we are fighting a losing battle. 
Richard Kingston 
Grand Rapids, Mich. 
(c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Carbon dioxide; 
Presidents; 
Coal 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Obama, Barack 
Company / organization 	Name: Congress 

NAICS: 921120; 

Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA NAICS: 924110 
Title 	Obama's Carbon Policy Is Folly and Misprioritization 
Author 	Anonymous 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.14 
Publication year 	2013 
Publication date 	Jul 1, 2013 
Section 	Letters to the Editor 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 	00999660 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	News 
ProQuest document ID 	1372574645 
Document URL 	https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1372574645?accountid=14902 
Copyright (c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Last updated 2017-11-20 
Database US Newsstream 
document 369 of 376 


The Climate Speech Obama Didn't Give 
Jenkins, Holman W, Jr.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]29 June 2013: A.17. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=The+Climate+Speech+Obama+Didn%27t+Give&title=Wall+Street+J 06-29&volume=&issue=&spage=A.17&au=Jenkins%2C+Holman+W%2C+Jr&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
In a simulation that brought down the house, Prof. Angelides of Cal Tech used artificial intelligence to inject actual intelligence into Obama's June 25, 2013, speech on climate change, dramatically revamping its tone and content. Why, despite a nearly 10% rise in atmospheric carbon over the past 15 years, is global average temperature unchanged? I believe the increase in carbon is worrisome and the net effect is warming, but that doesn't mean I subscribe to every unfounded, dire scenario. 

Full Text 
NEWS ITEM, Aug. 4, 2033 
Amid a raucous session, the Institute of Advanced Obamalogy voted to disband itself today. The latest techniques in textual analysis conclusively prove that Obama speeches 
were mostly empty bombast . . . . 
The nation's 44th president wasn't the modern, transformative liberal he claimed (and institute members long had believed). In a simulation that brought down the house, Prof. 

Angelides of Cal Tech used artificial intelligence to inject actual intelligence into Obama's June 25, 2013, speech on climate change, dramatically revamping its tone and content. 
An excerpt: 
Any Hoyas in the house? Yeah, I thought so. 

Look, potentially no greater challenge faces us than mankind's role in altering the composition of the atmosphere. 
Science, to be useful to policy makers, though, has to make valid predictions. Why, despite a nearly 10% rise in atmospheric carbon over the past 15 years, is global average 
temperature unchanged? 

I believe the increase in carbon is worrisome and the net effect is warming, but that doesn't mean I subscribe to every unfounded, dire scenario. 
"Do no harm" is good a prescription. So is "do some good." 
My environmentalist friends want a war on coal, but U.S. coal accounts for just 6% of global emissions -- less than China adds in three years. 
The effect would be nil. Keystone? Canada would just export the oil to world markets and nothing would change. 
Now, I understand. "Keystone" is a symbol to our environmentalist groups so they spin our wheels on Keystone. They spin our wheels demanding a higher "social cost of 

carbon" to justify regulating microwave ovens and ceiling fans. The effect on climate would be nil. We could cut our emissions in half overnight and the impact would be just 

three-tenths of a degree a century from now. 
I won't kid you. These things appeal to some in my administration. They like the idea of an expanding bureaucracy (with its own giant carbon footprint) to regulate ceiling fans. 
But I said we could do some good. 

When I call on congress today to implement a carbon tax and use the proceeds to cut payroll taxes and flatten the income tax, I know congress may not act right away. But tax 

reform is coming, and tax reform would be good -- giving us faster growth. 
Shifting some of the tax burden from work and capital to carbon would be good -- aiding the emergence of non-carbon sources of energy that ultimately justify themselves 
because they are cheaper and more convenient, not just lower in carbon. 

Let me take a little detour. There is no democratic appetite for giving up prosperity or our energy rich-lifestyles. Put that idea out of your heads. 

Let us also appreciate how little we can know about how people will live a century from now, what energy sources they will use, and the strong likelihood that any sacrifices we 
make on their behalf today will be of zero value to them. 
We're beyond the edge of forecastability and that's the point. 
Fracking was well understood a decade ago and yet nobody foresaw that fracking would lead to a decade-long decline -- yes, decline -- in U.S. greenhouse emissions. 
If we are serious about climate change, we must seriously factor in the accelerating rate of technological change already in our society. I'm personally impressed with what I 

read about the progress of nanobatteries, which may soon turn solar into a real contributor rather than a sinkhole for taxpayer charity. I'm impressed with the prospects for 

cheaper, inherently safe nuclear power, like in the new documentary, "Pandora's Promise" (go see it!). 
So here's what we can really do to help future generations and ourselves. We can maintain the dynamism of our economy, from which new technology emerges. We can broadly 
favor low-carbon energy without prejudging (probably wrongly) which technologies will succeed. Carbon capture, for instance, may well be the sort of white elephant 
boondoggle we'll be glad we avoided. 

Now I believe these new technologies will emerge or not emerge largely irrespective of what government does, though a little help can't hurt. I also believe, no matter what we do, the rest of the world will choose economic growth over reducing atmospheric carbon. So technology is our only hope. 
The tax reform I envision other countries could adopt out of self-interest, not self-punishment. But it also doesn't matter what they do. If the technologies that emerge are truly superior and competitive, other countries will adopt them anyway. 
Either way, we will not have impoverished ourselves with futile gestures. We will have done absolutely the best thing government can do to address the risk that human greenhouse emissions will lead to dangerous climate change. We will have resisted the temptation -- all too typical of Washington -- do foolish or cynical things in the guise of acting against global warming. 
For an animated hologram of Obama delivering his improved 2013 climate speech, sponsored by Geico, click here. 
Credit: By Holman W. Jenkins, Jr. 
(c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Speeches; 
Climate change 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Obama, Barack 
Classification 	9190: United States 

1540: Pollution control 


Title 	The Climate Speech Obama Didn't Give 
Author 	Jenkins, Holman W, Jr 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.17 
Publication year 	2013 
Publication date 	Jun 29, 2013 
column 	Business World 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 	00999660 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type 	Commentary 
ProQuest document ID 	1372303513 
Document URL 	https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1372303513?accountid=14902 
Copyright  (c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-20  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 370 of 376 


Big Coal Girds to Fight Obama's Climate Push 
Maher, Kris.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]27 June 2013: B.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Big+Coal+Girds+to+Fight+Obama%27s+Climate+Push&title=Wall+Stre 06-27&volume=&issue=&spage=B.1&au=Maher%2C+Kris&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Following the president's announcement Tuesday of a sweeping plan to cut greenhouse-gas emissions, including at existing coal-fired power plants, some company officials said Wednesday there is also greater urgency to develop clean-coal technology, including a cost-effective way to capture and store carbon dioxide. 

Full text 
The beleaguered domestic coal industry, bracing for the possibility that no more coal-burning power plants will ever be built on U.S. soil, is teaming up with other business groups to blunt the impact of President Obama's climate-change agenda, while also shifting its business focus to exports. 
Following the president's announcement Tuesday of a sweeping plan to cut greenhouse-gas emissions, including at existing coal-fired power plants, some company officials said Wednesday there is also greater urgency to develop clean-coal technology, including a cost-effective way to capture and store carbon dioxide. 
The coal industry plans to coordinate lobbying efforts with manufacturers and other business groups to fight rules they argue will raise electricity costs. Several groups plan to reach out to members of Congress from states that rely heavily on coal generation. "It'll be interesting, for sure, and loud," Kevin Crutchfield, chief executive of Bristol, Va., coal producer Alpha Natural Resources Inc., said in an interview. The Environmental Protection Agency is expected to develop the regulations over the next year. 
While final climate-plan details are unknown, one thing is clear: The domestic market for coal that is used to produce electricity will shrink as a result of the new rules and other market forces, most notably a surge in U.S. production of low-priced and cleaner-burning natural gas. 
"The U.S. market for coal is going to be smaller going forward. It doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure it out," said Mr. Crutchfield. "The question is, 'How much smaller could it get?'" 
Mr. Crutchfield said Alpha and other coal producers will pursue more exports of coal to China, India and Europe, including both thermal coal used to generate electricity and metallurgical coal used to make steel. "You'll see more of a pivot on everybody's part," he said. 
President Obama, as part of his plan to combat climate change, called for cutting greenhouse-gas emissions 17% from 2005 levels by 2020, to be partly achieved by cutting carbon emissions from power plants. The rules could require utilities to add new equipment to lower emissions, experts say. Increasing costs to burn coal would prompt utilities to use more existing capacity for natural gas and other fuels and to build new plants to increase that type of power generation. 
Energy analysts say the new rules, combined with environmental standards now being implemented, could push about one-third of the U.S. coal-fired fleet into retirement. 
The administration's plan to reduce carbon emissions didn't surprise anyone in the coal industry. EPA rules to lower other pollutants have already led to the retirement of coal-fired power plants and lower coal demand, prompting greater focus on exports. 
Last year, U.S. utilities burned 825 million tons of coal, down from 1.045 billion tons in 2007. Meanwhile, coal companies exported 126 million tons last year, up from 59 million tons in 2007. 
At the same time, China's coal consumption soared to 4.33 billion tons last year, up from 2.97 billion tons in 2007. Global demand for coal is currently about eight billion tons a year. Officials in India, which uses coal to produce more than half its electricity, recently said they intend to boost coal imports to avoid power outages that have hit the country. 
"The world will continue to consume fossil fuels at an increasing rate in the coming decades regardless of potential unilateral action by the United States," Brett Harvey, chief executive of Pittsburgh-based Consol Energy Inc., which produces both coal and natural gas, said. He said he doesn't think Mr. Obama's climate proposal aligns with "energy realities." 
Consol, however, stands to benefit from regulations favoring natural gas, which produces about half the carbon emissions as coal. Consol currently gets about 14% of its revenue from natural-gas production. 
Gregory Boyce, chief executive of St. Louis-based Peabody Energy Corp., noted on Wednesday that global consumption of coal is expected to grow by about 1.4 billion metric tons over the next five years. 
In the U.S., experts say it would take decades to develop enough capacity from other fuel sources to supplant coal. Last year, cheap natural gas pushed electricity generation from coal down to 37%, but coal has rebounded to about 40% this year as gas prices have increased. 
Coal companies are expected to continue shutting higher-cost mines, bringing more economic pain to states like West Virginia and Kentucky. In the first quarter of this year there were 900 active coal mines, down 17% from a year earlier. The top 100 producing mines account for 80% of the U.S. coal supply. 
"There's going to be further attrition," said Paul Forward, an analyst with Stifel, Nicolaus & Co. 
At the same time, he said, utilities that have invested billions of dollars already in emissions controls will want to continue burning coal. 
Credit: By Kris Maher 

(c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Environmental protection;  
Climate change;  
Emission standards;  
Coal industry  
Location  United States--US  
Classification  1540: Pollution control  
8500: Extractive industries  
9190: United States  
Title  Big Coal Girds to Fight Obama's Climate Push  
Author  Maher, Kris  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  B.1  
Publication year  2013  
Publication date  Jun 27, 2013  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1371707950  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1371707950?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  

Last updated 2017-11-20 
Database US Newsstream 
document 371 of 376 


Business and Finance 

Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]27 June 2013: A.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=Business+and+Finance&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&dat 06-27&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The U.S. coal industry is teaming up with other business groups to blunt the impact of the president's climate-change agenda. --­

Full Text 
A top executive at brokerage firm ICAP knew of an arrangement with UBS that U.S. and British regulators allege was part of a scheme to rig benchmark interest rates, according to people familiar with the matter. 
A trader who Japanese regulators allege is connected to the global rate-rigging scandal resigned last week from hedge fund Brevan Howard. 
The U.S. said the economy expanded at a 1.8% annual rate in the first quarter, far slower than the 2.4% pace estimated just a month ago. Sharp increases in long-term interest rates, triggered by Fed statements last week, could crimp sales of homes, cars and other big-ticket items. The economy has spent four years shaking off damage from a brutal recession, but businesses still haven't shaken off their caution. 
EU finance ministers agreed on new rules for dealing with failing banks in an effort to curtail the cost of taxpayer-funded bailouts. 
Stocks moved higher as fears about a pullback in central-bank support receded. The Dow industrials rose 149.83 points to 14910.14. 
Wal-Mart, Gap and other big U.S. retailers are nearing a pact to establish a fund to improve safety conditions in Bangladesh garment factories. 
The SEC has drawn up a hit list of impending cases where officials intend to test their new policy of requiring admissions of wrongdoing. 
Three sugar companies received the majority of the $1.1 billion in federal loans made to processors of the sweetener this fiscal year. 
The U.S. coal industry is teaming up with other business groups to blunt the impact of the president's climate-change agenda. 
The Nabucco consortium lost its bid to ship gas from Azerbaijan into the heart of Europe, a blow to EU efforts to reduce reliance on Russia. 
This month's turbulence in the markets threatens to disrupt plans by private-equity firms to sell stakes in the companies they own. 
The U.K. government renewed its commitment to austerity by setting out plans for another round of deep spending cuts. 
RIM on Friday will give investors their first real insight into how its all-or-nothing bet on a new breed of BlackBerry devices is faring. 
GM's Akerson signaled that the auto maker would put Chevrolet on equal footing with its Adam Opel brand in continental Europe. 
Rolls-Royce said it "fell short" after the final report in an Australian probe faulted it over an engine explosion on a Qantas A380 in 2010. 
(c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Coal industry;  
Investment policy;  
Interest rates;  
Bank failures  
Location  United States--US; Europe  
Company / organization  Name: UBS AG  
NAICS: 522110, 523110, 523120, 523920, 523930;  
Name: Qantas Airways Ltd  
NAICS: 481111;  
Name: European Union  
NAICS: 926110, 928120;  
Name: Wal-Mart Stores Inc  
NAICS: 452112, 452910  
Title  Business and Finance  
Author  Anonymous  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.1  
Publication year  2013  
Publication date  Jun 27, 2013  
column  Business and Finance  
Section  What's News  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1371707746  

Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1371707746?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-20  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 372 of 376 


World-Wide 

Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]26 June 2013: A.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=World­Wide&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=00999660&date=2013-06­26&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The proposal to fight climate change would speed the demise of coal and could make natural gas, nuclear power and renewable energy more attractive. 

Full Text 
Obama laid out a plan to curb power-plant emissions. 
The proposal to fight climate change would speed the demise of coal and could make natural gas, nuclear power and renewable energy more attractive. In his speech, the 
president also said he would approve the Keystone XL pipeline later this year if it didn't "significantly" increase greenhouse-gas emissions. 
A new study blamed poorly sealed gas wells -- not fracking -- for dissolved gas found in Pennsylvania water wells. 

The Supreme Court nullified a core provision of the Voting Rights Act, ruling 5-4 that a group of states no longer need Washington's approval to change election practices. 
NSA leaker Snowden appears to be stuck in a Moscow airport terminal. Putin urged him to leave but shot down U.S. requests to expel him. 
Democratic Rep. Ed Markey easily defeated Republican Gabriel Gomez in a Massachusetts special election to fill John Kerry's Senate seat. 
EU ministers recommended that talks begin by January on membership for Serbia. The EU is also set to offer Kosovo the prospect of closer ties. The EU agreed to advance negotiations with Turkey to join the 27-nation bloc. 
A plan by Brazil's president to overhaul the political system met with immediate resistance from some political leaders and legal experts. 
Jordan has held talks to become the first country to buy gas from Israel, marking a major tightening of relations. 
A suicide bomber in northern Iraq blew himself up among a group of people protesting a lack of security. 
Interest rates on some new federal student loans appear likely to double next week, according to some senators. 
An Indian helicopter returning from a flood-rescue operation crashed, killing the eight people on board. 
Qatar's ruler ceded power to his 33-year-old son, saying that it was time for the young to lead. 
French police arrested nine suspected Islamist militants as part of its antiterror probes, officials said. 
The Senate confirmed business executive and Obama fundraiser Penny Pritzker as the new commerce secretary. 
Italian authorities raided the offices of dozens of professional soccer clubs as part of a tax-evasion probe. 
The U.S. spends more than other developed nations on education, the OECD said. 
The Czech president named an economic adviser to lead a caretaker government. 
Died: Richard Matheson, 87, influential sci-fi author. 
(c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Student loans; 

Suicide bombings; 
Natural gas; 
Congressional elections 


Location 	United States--US; Pennsylvania 
People 	Matheson, Richard; Markey, Edward J; Kerry, John F 
Company / organization 	Name: European Union 

NAICS: 926110, 928120; 


Name: Organization for Economic Cooperation & Development NAICS: 928120 
Title 	World-Wide 
Author 	Anonymous 
Publication title 	Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. 
Pages 	A.1 
Publication year 	2013 
Publication date 	Jun 26, 2013 
column 	World-Wide 
Section 	What's News 
Publisher 	Dow Jones & Company Inc 
Place of publication 	New York, N.Y. 
Country of publication 	United States, New York, N.Y. 
Publication subject 	Business And Economics--Banking And Finance 
ISSN 	00999660 
Source type 	Newspapers 
Language of publication 	English 
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1371224410  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1371224410?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-20  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 373 of 376 


President Details Sweeping Climate Policies 
Johnson, Keith; Fowler, Tom; Sweet, Cassandra.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]26 June 2013: A.1. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=President+Details+Sweeping+Climate+Policies&title=Wall+Street+Journ 06­26&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Johnson%2C+Keith%3BFowler%2C+Tom%3BSweet%2C+Cassandra&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info 

Abstract 
The centerpiece is the first-ever federal effort to regulate greenhouse-gas emissions from existing power plants, the source of about one-third of such emissions in the U.S. Mr. Obama's plan includes other measures meant to reduce emissions, including federal loan guarantees for cleaner fossil-fuel energy projects; new fuel-economy standards for heavy trucks; and greater cooperation between the U.S. and major economies including China, India and Brazil. 

Full text 
A far-reaching plan to fight climate change detailed by President Barack Obama on Tuesday would profoundly reshape the way the U.S. produces and consumes electricity, though the resistance it is sure to encounter promises to sow uncertainty for an industry already buffeted by shifting rules and economics. 
As part of a much-anticipated speech at Georgetown University, in which the president laid out the first-ever federal effort to rein in greenhouse-gas emissions from the power sector, Mr. Obama also said he would approve the controversial Keystone XL pipeline later this year if it didn't "significantly" increase net greenhouse-gas emissions. Mr. Obama's conditional remark was meant, in part, to blunt criticism that approving an oil pipeline would be at odds with his climate policy. 
His speech stirred strong reactions from business leaders: Manufacturers raised fears the plan would raise electricity prices and cut competitiveness, while the plan drew support from nuclear and other clean-energy companies that stand to benefit if greenhouse-gas emissions are restricted. 
Mr. Obama's push, which doesn't require congressional approval, faces years of political and legal challenges. If put into place, planned curbs could accelerate the demise of coal, the backbone of power generation since the days of Thomas Edison. New regulations could make natural gas and nuclear power more attractive, since they emit less carbon dioxide than coal-fired power plants, and they could greatly boost renewable energy, such as wind and solar power, and speed the adoption of energy-efficiency measures. 
A push to cut back existing coal-fired generation capacity could also lead to a supply crunch if a recovering U.S. economy spurs greater demand for power, while possibly raising electricity rates for consumers, industry analysts said. 
Mr. Obama on Tuesday offered his most aggressive attack on opponents of measures to curb carbon pollution. "We don't have time for a meeting of the flat-earth society," he said, outlining a suite of steps the administration can take without the need for legislation that would begin to meet Mr. Obama's goal of curbing greenhouse-gas emissions 17% from 2005 levels by 2020. 
The centerpiece is the first-ever federal effort to regulate greenhouse-gas emissions from existing power plants, the source of about one-third of such emissions in the U.S. 
Mr. Obama's plan includes other measures meant to reduce emissions, including federal loan guarantees for cleaner fossil-fuel energy projects; new fuel-economy standards for heavy trucks; and greater cooperation between the U.S. and major economies including China, India and Brazil. 
The president's speech drew strong criticism from Republicans. Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R., Ky.) said the plan is "tantamount to declaring a war on jobs. It's tantamount to kicking the ladder out from beneath the feet of many Americans struggling in today's economy." 
Energy experts said the new regulations could spur more use of natural gas, which emits about half the carbon dioxide of coal. 
Investors saw the plan as a boon to the natural-gas industry, sending up shares in firms such as Devon Energy Corp., SandRidge Energy Inc. and EOG Resources Inc. by about 2%. 
Utilities heavily invested in clean energy, including NextEra Energy Inc. and Public Service Enterprise Group Inc., also welcomed the plan, though they said they preferred legislation. 
Some U.S. utilities that burn coal to generate electricity reacted with caution. "The devil is in the details," said Brad Watson, a spokesman for Luminant, a large power-plant operator in Texas that burns coal. "Overall, we want to see a policy that's broad and that would cover all sectors, not just the power sector and especially not just coal generators." 
Vic Svec, a senior vice president of St. Louis based Peabody Energy Corp., the nation's biggest coal producer, said any reduction in coal generation would hurt Americans "who would feel the same pain at the plug that we all feel at the pump." 
The coal-mining industry is already reeling from the country's glut of cheap natural gas. Any pain could spill over into the bottom lines of railroads that have turned coal-hauling into a lucrative business. 
Energy analysts say the new rules, combined with environmental standards now being implemented, could push about one-third of the U.S. coal-fired fleet into retirement. Much of that shortfall could be made up from other sources, because electricity demand is nearly flat. But it could also expose industries and consumers to more volatile prices, one reason power companies have resisted relying too heavily on gas for power generation in the past. 
"Natural gas has broken more hearts than any movie star. Coal is unsexy, but it's there for you," said Kevin Book, managing director at Clearview Energy Partners LLC in Washington. 
Some big industrial users expressed concern that higher or more volatile power prices could undermine competitiveness. "We compete globally against countries, including China, where the industry is often state-owned, controlled, and subsidized, including for electricity costs," said Thomas Gibson, president and CEO of the American Iron and Steel Institute. 
Canada's oil industry and government welcomed Mr. Obama's statement about the proposed Keystone XL oil pipeline. Canadian Minister of Natural Resources Joe Oliver told reporters that both the Canadian government and the U.S. State Department, which heads Washington's regulatory process on Keystone, believe the controversial pipeline connecting Alberta's oil sands to the U.S. Gulf coast will not "significantly exacerbate" pollution. The CEO of Keystone operator TransCanada Corp., Russ Girling, said he was "pleased" with the president's latest remarks. 
The renewed emphasis on climate change reopens Mr. Obama to Republican allegations that he is waging a "war on coal," which could be a factor in the 2014 elections in states with large coal industries. The plan received a distinctly chilly reception from coal companies and politicians in coal country. 
Mr. Obama's plan also could rejuvenate an environmentalist base that had become disillusioned in the wake of Washington gridlock. "This is the change we have been waiting for on climate. Today, President Obama has shown he is keeping his word to future generations," said Michael Brune, executive director of the Sierra Club. 
The measures will take years to be put in place, and may not be finished by the end of Mr. Obama's second term. Industry groups, which have been bracing for increased regulation for several years, have already signaled their intention to fight in the courts. 
"The unknowns here are still much bigger than the knowns," said Michael Levi, an energy expert at the Council on Foreign Relations. "We know there will be regulations, but we don't know how aggressive or flexible they'll be." 
The administration is finalizing tougher emission standards for new power plants, which must be in place before it can set rules for existing plants. Mr. Obama said he would direct the EPA to "put an end to the bottomless dumping of carbon pollution from power plants." 
Ben Lefebvre and Kris Maher contributed to this article. 
Credit: By Keith Johnson, Tom Fowler and Cassandra Sweet 

(c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Emissions control;  
Greenhouse gases;  
Environmental protection;  
Energy policy;  
Speeches;  
Pipelines;  
Climate change;  
Electric utilities  
People  Obama, Barack  
Company / organization  Name:  Georgetown University  
NAICS:  611310  
Classification  1520: Energy policy  
1530: Natural resources  
8340: Electric, water & gas utilities  
9190: United States  
Title  President Details Sweeping Climate Policies  
Author  Johnson, Keith; Fowler, Tom; Sweet, Cassandra  

Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.1  
Publication year  2013  
Publication date  Jun 26, 2013  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1371224347  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1371224347?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-20  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 374 of 376 


The Carbonated President 
Anonymous.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]26 June 2013: A.16. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=unknown&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=The+Carbonated+President&title=Wall+Street+Journal&issn=009996 06-26&volume=&issue=&spage=A.16&au=Anonymous&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
The plan covers everything from new efficiency standards for home appliances to new fuel mileage rules for heavy-duty trucks to new subsidies for wind farms, but the most consequential changes would slam the U.S. electric industry. Last year the Environmental Protection Agency released "new source performance standard" regulations that are effectively a moratorium on new coal plants. 

Full Text 
President Obama's climate speech on Tuesday was grandiose even for him, but its surreal nature was its particular hallmark. Some 12 million Americans still can't find work, real wages have fallen for five years, three-fourths of Americans now live paycheck to check, and the economy continues to plod along four years into a quasi-recovery. But there was the President in tony Georgetown, threatening more energy taxes and mandates that will ensure fewer jobs, still lower incomes and slower growth. 
Mr. Obama's "climate action plan" adds up to one of the most extensive reorganizations of the U.S. economy since the 1930s, imposed through administrative fiat and raw executive power. He wants to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 17% by 2020, but over his 6,500-word address he articulated no such goal for the unemployment rate or GDP. 
The plan covers everything from new efficiency standards for home appliances to new fuel mileage rules for heavy-duty trucks to new subsidies for wind farms, but the most consequential changes would slam the U.S. electric industry. These plants, coal-fired power in particular, account for about a third of domestic greenhouse gases. 
Last year the Environmental Protection Agency released "new source performance standard" regulations that are effectively a moratorium on new coal plants. The EPA denied that similar rules would ever apply to the existing fleet, or even that they were working up such rules. Now Mr. Obama will unleash his carbon central planners on current plants. 
Coal accounted for more than half of U.S. electric generation as recently as 2008 but plunged to a mere 37% in 2012. In part this tumble has been due to cheap natural gas, but now the EPA will finish the job and take coal to 0%. 
Daniel Shrag of Harvard, an Obama science adviser, told the New York Times Monday that "Politically, the White House is hesitant to say they're having a war on coal. On the other hand, a war on coal is exactly what's needed." At least he's honest, though in truth Mr. Obama's target is all forms of carbon energy. Natural gas is next. 
The higher costs will ripple through the energy chain, which is precisely Mr. Obama's goal. Only by artificially raising the cost of carbon energy can he make even heavily subsidized "renewables" competitive. 
In general every $1 billion spent complying with an EPA rule threatens 16,000 jobs and cuts GDP by $1.2 billion -- and the agency is now writing scores of multibillion-dollar rules. Keep in mind that last month the Administration quietly raised the "social cost" of carbon by 60% in a regulatory filing related to microwave ovens. That means the EPA can jack up costs by 59.99% and still justify them by claiming the higher benefits. 
This regressive burden won't merely be borne by average American consumers and utility rate-payers -- especially in the Midwest and Southern regions that use the most coal. This also threatens one of the few booming parts of the economy, the energy revolution driven by shale gas and unconventional oil. The return of manufacturing to the U.S. depends on this cheap abundant energy, and it could as easily re-relocate overseas as the U.S. becomes less competitive. 
For good measure, Mr. Obama also declared that he will approve the Keystone XL pipeline "only if this project does not significantly exacerbate the problem of carbon pollution." Yet the oil in Alberta won't stay in the ground if Mr. Obama blocks the route to the Gulf of Mexico. It will be shipped by rail and boat to China and elsewhere. The only question is whether America will benefit from this shovel-ready project that will create tens of thousands of jobs. 
Speaking of futility, Mr. Obama's ambitions will have no effect on global atmospheric carbon concentrations. Emissions are already falling in the U.S., thanks primarily to the shale gas boom, but emissions are rising in the developing world. Mr. Obama pandered to the climate-change absolutists by saying "We don't have time for a meeting of the Flat Earth Society." But he never explained how his plan will reduce warming, or why climate models have failed to predict the warming slowdown of the last dozen or so years even as more CO2 is pumped into the atmosphere. 
Most striking about this Obama legacy project is its contempt for democratic consent. Congress has consistently rejected an Obama-style "comprehensive" anticarbon energy plan. That was true even when Democrats ran the Senate with a filibuster-proof majority in 2009-2010 and killed his cap-and-trade energy bill. The only legislative justification for Mr. Obama's new plan is an abusive interpretation of the Clean Air Act, which was last revised in 1990 and never mentions carbon as a pollutant. 
So instead Mr. Obama will impose these inherently political policy choices via unaccountable bureaucracies, with little or no debate. Mr. Obama might have at least announced his war on carbon before the election and let voters have a say. Instead he posed as the John the Baptist of fossil fuels in locales such as Ohio, Pennsylvania and Virginia -­taking credit for the shale fracking boom he had nothing to do with and running ads attacking Mitt Romney as anticoal. 
Now safely re-elected, Mr. Obama figures he can do what he pleases. The Americans who will be harmed will have to console themselves with 99 weeks of jobless benefits, food stamps and ObamaCare. 
(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: Obama's Carbon Policy Is Folly and Misprioritization" -- WSJ July 1, 2013) 
(c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 
Details  
Subject  Greenhouse gases;  
Natural gas;  
Climate change;  
Electric utilities;  
Gross Domestic Product--GDP;  
Editorials -- Obama, Barack  
Location  United States--US  
People  Obama, Barack  
Company / organization  Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS: 924110  
Title  The Carbonated President  
Author  Anonymous  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.16  
Publication year  2013  
Publication date  Jun 26, 2013  
column  REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  Editorial  
ProQuest document ID  1371223071  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1371223071?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-20  
Database  US Newsstream  


document 375 of 376 


U.S. News: President's Goals Rebuffed by GOP, Some Democrats 
Favole, Jared A; Peterson, Kristina.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]26 June 2013: A.2. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+President%27s+Goals+Rebuffed+by+GOP%2C+Some 06-26&volume=&issue=&spage=A.2&au=Favole%2C+Jared+A%3BPeterson%2C+Kristina&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Mr. Obama on Tuesday directly addressed criticism of his plan, which includes directing the Environmental Protection Agency to create carbon standards for both new and existing power plants. 

Full Text 
WASHINGTON -- Democratic Sen. Joe Manchin has often tried to distance himself from President Barack Obama, particularly on energy matters, and the president's new plan to combat climate change became one more mile marker between them. 
The measures unveiled Tuesday show that Mr. Obama is "totally out of touch with the economy of this country and what makes this economy work," the West Virginia senator said in an interview. 
A majority of Democratic lawmakers remain squarely in the president's corner on energy issues, but there are many like Mr. Manchin -- from states with largely conservative or resource-reliant residents -- who will buck Mr. Obama on this front. While Republicans moved quickly to claim that Democratic candidates wouldn't be able to escape the fallout from the president's climate agenda, Mr. Manchin said it would prove problematic only for those who are "kowtowing to whoever tells you what to do." 
Likewise, one strategist for the party said the climate speech "is an opportunity for Democratic candidates in conservative states to express independence from the national party." 
In a news release, the Republicans' national Senate campaign arm named more than 10 Democrats who it said "have remained loyal to President Obama's liberal record and are now responsible for a radical agenda that threatens families, workers, and entire industries across the country." 
The GOP is promoting that message in a series of energy-producing states and in states likely to see competitive Senate races, calling the climate initiative a "war on coal"" that will kill jobs and raise electricity prices. 
Republican lawmakers offered similar criticisms; speaking on the House floor Tuesday, Rep. Ann Wagner (R., Mo.) called the president's plan "an attack on the middle class." 
A number of Democrats weighed in on Mr. Obama's behalf. "The president is absolutely right to act now," said California Rep. Henry Waxman. "We have a moral imperative to protect the environment for our children and future generations." 
But Mr. Manchin, who has aligned closer to Mr. Obama on some contentious policies -- most prominently as lead Democrat on talks to expand background checks for gun buyers -- has cause to show his independence: As a coal-mining state, West Virginia is particularly sensitive to policies that could harm coal-fired power plants, and voters there in November picked Republican Mitt Romney over Mr. Obama by nearly 27 percentage points. 
Mr. Obama on Tuesday directly addressed criticism of his plan, which includes directing the Environmental Protection Agency to create carbon standards for both new and existing power plants. 
Opponents, he said, will argue that it will "kill jobs and crush the economy. And the reason I know you'll hear those things is because that's what they said every time America sets clear rules and better standards for our air and our water and our children's health. And every time, they've been wrong." 
Credit: By Jared A. Favole and Kristina Peterson 
(c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Environmental protection; 
Political campaigns; 
Climate change; 
Environmental policy 


Location 	California; West Virginia 
People 	Waxman, Henry A; Manchin, Joe III; Obama, Barack 
Company / organization  Name: Republican Party  
NAICS: 813940;  
Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA  
NAICS: 924110;  
Name: Democratic Party  
NAICS: 813940  
Title  U.S. News: President's Goals Rebuffed by GOP, Some Democrats  
Author  Favole, Jared A; Peterson, Kristina  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.2  
Publication year  2013  
Publication date  Jun 26, 2013  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1371222670  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1371222670?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-20  
Database  US Newsstream  

document 376 of 376 


U.S. News: Obama Base Vexed By Pace of Agenda 
Nicholas, Peter; Colleen McCain Nelson.Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]25 June 2013: A.5. 
Find a copy 
https://searchit.libraries.wsu.edu/openurl/WSU/WSU?url_ver=Z39.88­2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awallstreetjournal&atitle=U.S.+News%3A+Obama+Base+Vexed+By+Pace+of+Agenda&title=Wal 06-25&volume=&issue=&spage=A.5&au=Nicholas%2C+Peter%3BColleen+McCain+Nelson&isbn=&jtitle=Wall+Street+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/ 

Abstract 
Deepak Bhargava, executive director of the Center for Community Change, an antipoverty and immigrant-rights group, said: "We are still awaiting from the president and Democrats in Congress a bold enough economic agenda to deal with the massive crisis in the country, and that has not been forthcoming." 

Full Text 
Revelations about secret surveillance programs are adding to strains between President Barack Obama and core backers who already were testy about progress on Democratic legislative goals. 
Liberal activists and lawmakers say they want more forceful action from the president to create jobs and curb the pollutants that contribute to global warming, in addition to doing more to rein in government surveillance. 
Some are also unhappy about the compromises being made to pass an immigration bill moving through the Senate, pointing to proposals they say would "militarize" the Southern border as the price for building political support in the Senate for providing a path to citizenship for people living in the U.S. illegally. 
"It's not just one thing here or another thing there," said Arshad Hasan, executive director of Democracy for America, a liberal political action committee. "There's a general sense of frustration among progressives." He said Mr. Obama should do more to get the GOP to "come part way over to us. We've been doing a lot of walking over to them." 
Deepak Bhargava, executive director of the Center for Community Change, an antipoverty and immigrant-rights group, said: "We are still awaiting from the president and Democrats in Congress a bold enough economic agenda to deal with the massive crisis in the country, and that has not been forthcoming." 
In his first term, Mr. Obama pleased many on the political left by pushing his health-care law and the Dodd-Frank financial regulatory law through Congress, among other measures. He signed a tax increase on high-earning households just days before starting his second term. But efforts on some second-term priorities appear to have stalled. 
Josh Earnest, a White House spokesman, said: "The president has worked diligently to fulfill his campaign promise to bring change to Washington, D.C., focusing primarily on expanding economic opportunity for middle-class families. He's also made good on his promises to expand and strengthen oversight of national-security programs and confront climate change by taking serious steps to reduce carbon pollution." 
On Tuesday, Mr. Obama will give a speech laying out new efforts to curb the pollutants that contribute to global warming. But while environmentalists cheered reports that Mr. Obama will announce his intent to regulate emissions from existing coal-fired power plants, they are also wary he may approve the Keystone XL pipeline. That project would carry about 700,000 barrels a day of Canadian oil-sands crude from Alberta to Nebraska, where it would then be shipped to the Gulf Coast for refining. 
"We'd be happy to see coal emissions reduced, but we don't want to see that as an exchange for agreeing to do tar-sands development," said Susan Corbett, head of the South Carolina chapter of the Sierra Club. 
A Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll detected a breach, albeit slight, between Mr. Obama and some of his supporters. People considered "core Obama supporters" -- those who approve of the president's job performance and view him in a positive light -- fell by nine percentage points between January and a survey conducted in late May and early June. Some 52% of poll respondents had been "core Obama supporters" in January; that share fell to 43% by early June. 
Given the fierce partisan divide on Capitol Hill, some liberals believe the president is facing obstacles that would have bedeviled any of his predecessors. "It's very difficult for any Democratic president to move an agenda in this environment," said Rep. Keith Ellison (D., Minn.), co-chairman of the Congressional Progressive Caucus. 
Credit: By Peter Nicholas and Colleen McCain Nelson 
(c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission. 

Details 
Subject 	Politics; 

Presidents 


Location 	United States--US 
People 	Obama, Barack 
Classification  9190: United States  
1210: Politics & political behavior  
Title  U.S. News: Obama Base Vexed By Pace of Agenda  
Author  Nicholas, Peter; Colleen McCain Nelson  
Publication title  Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.  
Pages  A.5  
Publication year  2013  
Publication date  Jun 25, 2013  
Publisher  Dow Jones & Company Inc  
Place of publication  New York, N.Y.  
Country of publication  United States, New York, N.Y.  
Publication subject  Business And Economics--Banking And Finance  
ISSN  00999660  
Source type  Newspapers  
Language of publication  English  
Document type  News  
ProQuest document ID  1370823060  
Document URL  https://ntserver1.wsulibs.wsu.edu:2152/docview/1370823060?accountid=14902  
Copyright  (c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further  
reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.  
Last updated  2017-11-20  
Database  US Newsstream  

Database copyright © 2019 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved. Terms and Conditions 


